doc/primitives/layer_normalization.md, before:

Layer Normalization {#dev_guide_layer_normalization}
====================================================

>
> [API Reference](@ref dnnl_api_layer_normalization)
>

## General

The layer normalization primitive performs a forward or backward layer
normalization operation on a 2-5D data tensor.

### Forward

The layer normalization operation performs normalization over the last logical
axis of the data tensor and is defined by the following formulas. We show
formulas only for 3D data, which are straightforward to generalize to
cases of higher dimensions. Variable names follow the standard
@ref dev_guide_conventions.

\f[
    \dst(t, n, c) =
       \gamma(c) \cdot
       \frac{\src(t, n, c) - \mu(t, n)} {\sqrt{\sigma^2(t, n) + \varepsilon}}
       + \beta(c),
\f]

where

- \f$\gamma(c), \beta(c)\f$ are optional scale and shift for a channel
(see #dnnl_use_scale, #dnnl_use_shift flags),

- \f$\mu(t, n), \sigma^2(t, n)\f$ are mean and variance (see
  #dnnl_use_global_stats flag), and

- \f$\varepsilon\f$ is a constant to improve numerical stability.

Mean and variance are computed at runtime or provided by a user. When mean and
variance are computed at runtime, the following formulas are used:

- \f$\mu(t, n) = \frac{1}{C} \sum\limits_{c} \src(t, n, c)_{}\f$,

- \f$\sigma^2(t, n) = \frac{1}{C} \sum\limits_{c} {}_{} (\src(t, n, c) - \mu(t, n))^2\f$.

The \f$\gamma(c)\f$ and \f$\beta(c)\f$ tensors are considered learnable.

#### Difference Between Forward Training and Forward Inference

 * If mean and variance are computed at runtime (i.e., #dnnl_use_global_stats
   is not set), they become outputs for the propagation kind
   #dnnl_forward_training (because they would be required during the backward
   propagation). Data layout for mean and variance must be specified during
   creation of the layer normalization primitive descriptor by passing the
   memory descriptor for statistics (e.g., by passing stat_desc in
   dnnl::layer_normalization_forward::primitive_desc()). Mean and variance are
   not exposed for the propagation kind #dnnl_forward_inference.

### Backward

The backward propagation computes
\f$\diffsrc(t, n, c)\f$,
\f$\diffgamma(c)^*\f$, and \f$\diffbeta(c)^*\f$
based on
\f$\diffdst(t, n, c)\f$, \f$src(t, n, c)\f$, \f$\mu(t, n)\f$,
\f$\sigma^2(t, n)\f$, \f$\gamma(c) ^*\f$, and \f$\beta(c) ^*\f$.

The tensors marked with an asterisk are used only when the primitive is
configured to use \f$\gamma(c)\f$, and \f$\beta(c)\f$
(i.e., #dnnl_use_scale or #dnnl_use_shift are set).

## Root Mean Square Normalization Mode

The layer normalization primitive also supports root mean square normalization
(RMSNorm) via #dnnl_rms_norm flag. RMSNorm is a simplification of layer
normalization that skips re-centering the data assuming that the mean is zero
and uses root mean square statistics
\f$\sqrt{\frac{1}{C} \sum\limits_{c} (\src(t, n, c))^2}\f$ instead of a variance.

For the forward step, RMSNorm is then defined by the following formula:
\f[
   \dst(t, n, c) =
      \gamma(c) \cdot
   \frac{\src(t, n, c)} {\sqrt{\frac{1}{C} \sum\limits_{c} (\src(t, n, c))^2 + \varepsilon}}
   + \beta(c),
\f]

where:

- \f$\gamma(c), \beta(c)\f$ are optional scale and shift for a channel
  (see #dnnl_use_scale, #dnnl_use_shift flags), and

- \f$\varepsilon\f$ is a constant added to enhance numerical stability.

For backward propagation, RMSNorm similarly does not require the mean,
and the root mean square statistic is used in place of variance.

## Execution Arguments

Depending on the [flags](@ref dnnl_normalization_flags_t) and
[propagation kind](@ref dnnl_prop_kind_t), the layer normalization primitive
requires different inputs and outputs. For clarity, a summary is shown below.

| Flags                                                        | #dnnl_forward_inference                                                                       | #dnnl_forward_training                                                                        | #dnnl_backward                                                                                                                     | #dnnl_backward_data        |
|:-------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------|
| #dnnl_normalization_flags_none                               | *Inputs*: \src <br><br> *Outputs*: \dst                                                       | *Inputs*: \src <br><br> *Outputs*: \dst, \f$\mu\f$, \f$\sigma^2\f$                            | *Inputs*: \diffdst, \src, \f$\mu\f$, \f$\sigma^2\f$ <br><br> *Outputs*: \diffsrc                                                   | Same as for #dnnl_backward |
| #dnnl_use_global_stats                                       | *Inputs*: \src, \f$\mu\f$, \f$\sigma^2\f$ <br><br> *Outputs*: \dst                            | *Inputs*: \src, \f$\mu\f$, \f$\sigma^2\f$ <br><br> *Outputs*: \dst                            | *Inputs*: \diffdst, \src, \f$\mu\f$, \f$\sigma^2\f$ <br><br> *Outputs*: \diffsrc                                                   | Same as for #dnnl_backward |
| #dnnl_use_scale                                              | *Inputs*: \src, \f$\gamma\f$ <br><br> *Outputs*: \dst                                         | *Inputs*: \src, \f$\gamma\f$ <br><br> *Outputs*: \dst, \f$\mu\f$, \f$\sigma^2\f$              | *Inputs*: \diffdst, \src, \f$\mu\f$, \f$\sigma^2\f$, \f$\gamma\f$ <br><br> *Outputs*: \diffsrc, \diffgamma                         | Not supported              |
| #dnnl_use_shift                                              | *Inputs*: \src, \f$\beta\f$ <br><br> *Outputs*: \dst                                          | *Inputs*: \src, \f$\beta\f$ <br><br> *Outputs*: \dst, \f$\mu\f$, \f$\sigma^2\f$               | *Inputs*: \diffdst, \src, \f$\mu\f$, \f$\sigma^2\f$, \f$\beta\f$ <br><br> *Outputs*: \diffsrc, \diffbeta                           | Not supported              |
| #dnnl_use_global_stats \| #dnnl_use_scale \| #dnnl_use_shift | *Inputs*: \src, \f$\mu\f$, \f$\sigma^2\f$, \f$\gamma\f$, \f$\beta\f$ <br><br> *Outputs*: \dst | *Inputs*: \src, \f$\mu\f$, \f$\sigma^2\f$, \f$\gamma\f$, \f$\beta\f$ <br><br> *Outputs*: \dst | *Inputs*: \diffdst, \src, \f$\mu\f$, \f$\sigma^2\f$, \f$\gamma\f$, \f$\beta\f$ <br><br> *Outputs*: \diffsrc, \diffgamma, \diffbeta | Not supported              |
| #dnnl_rms_norm                                           | *Inputs*: \src, <br><br> *Outputs*: \dst                                         | *Inputs*: \src <br><br> *Outputs*: \dst, \f$\sigma^2\f$              | *Inputs*: \diffdst, \src, \f$\sigma^2\f$ <br><br> *Outputs*: \diffsrc                        | Same as for #dnnl_backward              |
| #dnnl_use_global_stats \| #dnnl_rms_norm                 | *Inputs*: \src, \f$\sigma^2\f$ <br><br> *Outputs*: \dst | *Inputs*: \src, \f$\sigma^2\f$ <br><br> *Outputs*: \dst | *Inputs*: \diffdst, \src \f$\sigma^2\f$ <br><br> *Outputs*: \diffsrc | Same as for #dnnl_backward              |


When executed, the inputs and outputs should be mapped to an execution
argument index as specified by the following table.

| Primitive input/output      | Execution argument index                                                  |
|-----------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| \src                        | DNNL_ARG_SRC                                                              |
| \f$\gamma\f$                | DNNL_ARG_SCALE                                                            |
| \f$\beta\f$                 | DNNL_ARG_SHIFT                                                            |
| mean (\f$\mu\f$)            | DNNL_ARG_MEAN                                                             |
| variance* (\f$\sigma\f$)    | DNNL_ARG_VARIANCE                                                         |
| \dst                        | DNNL_ARG_DST                                                              |
| \diffdst                    | DNNL_ARG_DIFF_DST                                                         |
| \diffsrc                    | DNNL_ARG_DIFF_SRC                                                         |
| \diffgamma                  | DNNL_ARG_DIFF_SCALE                                                       |
| \diffbeta                   | DNNL_ARG_DIFF_SHIFT                                                       |
| \f$src scale\f$             | DNNL_ARG_ATTR_SCALES \| DNNL_ARG_SRC                                      |
| \f$dst scale\f$             | DNNL_ARG_ATTR_SCALES \| DNNL_ARG_DST                                      |
| \f$\text{binary post-op}\f$ | DNNL_ARG_ATTR_MULTIPLE_POST_OP(binary_post_op_position) \| DNNL_ARG_SRC_1,|
|                             | DNNL_ARG_ATTR_MULTIPLE_POST_OP(binary_post_op_position) \| DNNL_ARG_SRC_2 |

The variance is marked with an asterisk because, for RMS normalization, the root
mean square statistic is computed in place of the variance.

## Implementation Details

### General Notes

1. The different flavors of the primitive are partially controlled by the @p
   flags parameter that is passed to the primitive descriptor creation
   function (e.g., dnnl::layer_normalization_forward::primitive_desc()).
   Multiple flags can be set using the bitwise OR operator (`|`).

2. For forward propagation, the mean and variance might be either computed at
   runtime (in which case they are outputs of the primitive) or provided by
   a user (in which case they are inputs). In the latter case, a user must set
   the #dnnl_use_global_stats flag. For the backward propagation, the mean and
   variance are input parameters. In case of RMS normalization, the mean is never
   required or computed and the variance is replaced with the root mean square statistic.

3. Both forward and backward propagation support in-place operations, meaning
   that \src can be used as input and output for forward propagation, and
   \diffdst can be used as input and output for backward propagation. In case of
   an in-place operation, the original data will be overwritten. This support is
   limited to cases when data types of \src and \dst or \diffsrc and \diffdst
   are identical. Note, however, that backward propagation requires original
   \src, hence the corresponding forward propagation should not be performed
   in-place.

### Post-ops and Attributes

Attributes enable you to modify the behavior of the layer normalization
primitive. The following attributes are supported by the layer normalization
primitive:

| Propagation | Type      | Operation                                            | Description                                                   | Restrictions                                                                       |
|:------------|:----------|:-----------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| forward     | attribute | [Scales](@ref dnnl::primitive_attr::set_scales_mask) | Scales the corresponding tensor by the given scale factor(s). | Supported only for int8 layer normalization and one scale per tensor is supported. |
| forward     | Post-op   | [Binary](@ref dnnl::post_ops::append_binary)         | Applies a @ref dnnl_api_binary operation to the result.       | General binary post-op restrictions.                                               |

### Data Type Support

The operation supports the following combinations of data types:

| Propagation | Source                      | Destination                 | Scale and Shift|
|:------------|:----------------------------|:----------------------------|----------------|
| forward     | f32, bf16, f16, u8, s8, f64 | f32, bf16, f16, u8, s8, f64 | f32, bf16, f16 |
| backward    | f32, bf16, f16, f64         | f32, bf16, f16, f64         | f32, bf16, f16 |

Mean and Variance data types are always f32 and independent of Source and
Destination data types.

### Data Representation

#### Mean and Variance

The mean (\f$\mu\f$) and variance (\f$\sigma^2\f$) are separate tensors with
number of dimensions equal to (\f$data\_ndims - 1\f$) and size
\f$(data\_dim[0], data\_dim[1], ..., data\_dim[ndims - 2])\f$.

The corresponding memory object can have an arbitrary memory format. Unless mean
and variance are computed at runtime and not exposed (i.e., propagation kind is
#dnnl_forward_inference and #dnnl_use_global_stats is not set), the user should
provide a memory descriptor for statistics when creating the layer
normalization primitive descriptor. For best performance, it is advised to use
the memory format that follows the data memory format; i.e., if the data format
is #dnnl_tnc, the best performance can be expected for statistics with the
#dnnl_tn format and suboptimal for statistics with the #dnnl_nt format.

#### Scale and Shift

If #dnnl_use_scale or #dnnl_use_shift are used, the scale (\f$\gamma\f$) and
shift (\f$\beta\f$) are separate 1D tensors of shape \f$C\f$.

#### Source, Destination, and Their Gradients

The layer normalization primitive works with an arbitrary data tensor; however,
it was designed for RNN data tensors (i.e., #dnnl_nc, #dnnl_tnc, #dnnl_ldnc).
Unlike CNN data tensors, RNN data tensors have a single feature dimension.
Layer normalization performs normalization over the last logical dimension
(feature dimension for RNN tensors) across non-feature dimensions.

The layer normalization primitive is optimized for the following memory formats:

| Logical tensor | Implementations optimized for memory formats |
|:---------------|:---------------------------------------------|
| NC             | #dnnl_nc (#dnnl_ab)                          |
| TNC            | #dnnl_tnc (#dnnl_abc), #dnnl_ntc (#dnnl_bac) |
| LDNC           | #dnnl_ldnc (#dnnl_abcd)                      |

## Implementation Limitations

1. Refer to @ref dev_guide_data_types for limitations related to data types
   support.

2. **GPU**
   - Only tensors of 6 or fewer dimensions are supported.
   - Post-ops are not supported.

## Performance Tips
1. For data tensors \src, \dst, \diffsrc, and \diffdst, use memory formats
   for which the last logical axis is the last in the physical memory layout.

2. For `mean` and `variance`, use the memory format that follows the data memory
   format; i.e., if the data format is #dnnl_tnc, the best performance can be
   expected for statistics with #dnnl_tn and suboptimal for statistics with the
   #dnnl_nt format.

3. For backward propagation, use the same memory format for \src, \diffdst,
   and \diffsrc. Different formats are functionally supported but lead to
   highly suboptimal performance.

4. Use in-place operations whenever possible (see caveats in General Notes).

## Examples

* @ref layer_normalization_example_cpp

Commit message:

doc: link to examples.md instead of duplicating lists

doc/primitives/layer_normalization.md, after:

Layer Normalization {#dev_guide_layer_normalization}
====================================================

>
> [API Reference](@ref dnnl_api_layer_normalization)
>

## General

The layer normalization primitive performs a forward or backward layer
normalization operation on a 2-5D data tensor.

### Forward

The layer normalization operation performs normalization over the last logical
axis of the data tensor and is defined by the following formulas. We show
formulas only for 3D data, which are straightforward to generalize to
cases of higher dimensions. Variable names follow the standard
@ref dev_guide_conventions.

\f[
    \dst(t, n, c) =
       \gamma(c) \cdot
       \frac{\src(t, n, c) - \mu(t, n)} {\sqrt{\sigma^2(t, n) + \varepsilon}}
       + \beta(c),
\f]

where

- \f$\gamma(c), \beta(c)\f$ are optional scale and shift for a channel
(see #dnnl_use_scale, #dnnl_use_shift flags),

- \f$\mu(t, n), \sigma^2(t, n)\f$ are mean and variance (see
  #dnnl_use_global_stats flag), and

- \f$\varepsilon\f$ is a constant to improve numerical stability.

Mean and variance are computed at runtime or provided by a user. When mean and
variance are computed at runtime, the following formulas are used:

- \f$\mu(t, n) = \frac{1}{C} \sum\limits_{c} \src(t, n, c)_{}\f$,

- \f$\sigma^2(t, n) = \frac{1}{C} \sum\limits_{c} {}_{} (\src(t, n, c) - \mu(t, n))^2\f$.

The \f$\gamma(c)\f$ and \f$\beta(c)\f$ tensors are considered learnable.

#### Difference Between Forward Training and Forward Inference

 * If mean and variance are computed at runtime (i.e., #dnnl_use_global_stats
   is not set), they become outputs for the propagation kind
   #dnnl_forward_training (because they would be required during the backward
   propagation). Data layout for mean and variance must be specified during
   creation of the layer normalization primitive descriptor by passing the
   memory descriptor for statistics (e.g., by passing stat_desc in
   dnnl::layer_normalization_forward::primitive_desc()). Mean and variance are
   not exposed for the propagation kind #dnnl_forward_inference.

### Backward

The backward propagation computes
\f$\diffsrc(t, n, c)\f$,
\f$\diffgamma(c)^*\f$, and \f$\diffbeta(c)^*\f$
based on
\f$\diffdst(t, n, c)\f$, \f$src(t, n, c)\f$, \f$\mu(t, n)\f$,
\f$\sigma^2(t, n)\f$, \f$\gamma(c) ^*\f$, and \f$\beta(c) ^*\f$.

The tensors marked with an asterisk are used only when the primitive is
configured to use \f$\gamma(c)\f$, and \f$\beta(c)\f$
(i.e., #dnnl_use_scale or #dnnl_use_shift are set).

## Root Mean Square Normalization Mode

The layer normalization primitive also supports root mean square normalization
(RMSNorm) via #dnnl_rms_norm flag. RMSNorm is a simplification of layer
normalization that skips re-centering the data assuming that the mean is zero
and uses root mean square statistics
\f$\sqrt{\frac{1}{C} \sum\limits_{c} (\src(t, n, c))^2}\f$ instead of a variance.

For the forward step, RMSNorm is then defined by the following formula:
\f[
   \dst(t, n, c) =
      \gamma(c) \cdot
   \frac{\src(t, n, c)} {\sqrt{\frac{1}{C} \sum\limits_{c} (\src(t, n, c))^2 + \varepsilon}}
   + \beta(c),
\f]

where:

- \f$\gamma(c), \beta(c)\f$ are optional scale and shift for a channel
  (see #dnnl_use_scale, #dnnl_use_shift flags), and

- \f$\varepsilon\f$ is a constant added to enhance numerical stability.

For backward propagation, RMSNorm similarly does not require the mean,
and the root mean square statistic is used in place of variance.

## Execution Arguments

Depending on the [flags](@ref dnnl_normalization_flags_t) and
[propagation kind](@ref dnnl_prop_kind_t), the layer normalization primitive
requires different inputs and outputs. For clarity, a summary is shown below.

| Flags                                                        | #dnnl_forward_inference                                                                       | #dnnl_forward_training                                                                        | #dnnl_backward                                                                                                                     | #dnnl_backward_data        |
|:-------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------|
| #dnnl_normalization_flags_none                               | *Inputs*: \src <br><br> *Outputs*: \dst                                                       | *Inputs*: \src <br><br> *Outputs*: \dst, \f$\mu\f$, \f$\sigma^2\f$                            | *Inputs*: \diffdst, \src, \f$\mu\f$, \f$\sigma^2\f$ <br><br> *Outputs*: \diffsrc                                                   | Same as for #dnnl_backward |
| #dnnl_use_global_stats                                       | *Inputs*: \src, \f$\mu\f$, \f$\sigma^2\f$ <br><br> *Outputs*: \dst                            | *Inputs*: \src, \f$\mu\f$, \f$\sigma^2\f$ <br><br> *Outputs*: \dst                            | *Inputs*: \diffdst, \src, \f$\mu\f$, \f$\sigma^2\f$ <br><br> *Outputs*: \diffsrc                                                   | Same as for #dnnl_backward |
| #dnnl_use_scale                                              | *Inputs*: \src, \f$\gamma\f$ <br><br> *Outputs*: \dst                                         | *Inputs*: \src, \f$\gamma\f$ <br><br> *Outputs*: \dst, \f$\mu\f$, \f$\sigma^2\f$              | *Inputs*: \diffdst, \src, \f$\mu\f$, \f$\sigma^2\f$, \f$\gamma\f$ <br><br> *Outputs*: \diffsrc, \diffgamma                         | Not supported              |
| #dnnl_use_shift                                              | *Inputs*: \src, \f$\beta\f$ <br><br> *Outputs*: \dst                                          | *Inputs*: \src, \f$\beta\f$ <br><br> *Outputs*: \dst, \f$\mu\f$, \f$\sigma^2\f$               | *Inputs*: \diffdst, \src, \f$\mu\f$, \f$\sigma^2\f$, \f$\beta\f$ <br><br> *Outputs*: \diffsrc, \diffbeta                           | Not supported              |
| #dnnl_use_global_stats \| #dnnl_use_scale \| #dnnl_use_shift | *Inputs*: \src, \f$\mu\f$, \f$\sigma^2\f$, \f$\gamma\f$, \f$\beta\f$ <br><br> *Outputs*: \dst | *Inputs*: \src, \f$\mu\f$, \f$\sigma^2\f$, \f$\gamma\f$, \f$\beta\f$ <br><br> *Outputs*: \dst | *Inputs*: \diffdst, \src, \f$\mu\f$, \f$\sigma^2\f$, \f$\gamma\f$, \f$\beta\f$ <br><br> *Outputs*: \diffsrc, \diffgamma, \diffbeta | Not supported              |
| #dnnl_rms_norm                                           | *Inputs*: \src, <br><br> *Outputs*: \dst                                         | *Inputs*: \src <br><br> *Outputs*: \dst, \f$\sigma^2\f$              | *Inputs*: \diffdst, \src, \f$\sigma^2\f$ <br><br> *Outputs*: \diffsrc                        | Same as for #dnnl_backward              |
| #dnnl_use_global_stats \| #dnnl_rms_norm                 | *Inputs*: \src, \f$\sigma^2\f$ <br><br> *Outputs*: \dst | *Inputs*: \src, \f$\sigma^2\f$ <br><br> *Outputs*: \dst | *Inputs*: \diffdst, \src \f$\sigma^2\f$ <br><br> *Outputs*: \diffsrc | Same as for #dnnl_backward              |


When executed, the inputs and outputs should be mapped to an execution
argument index as specified by the following table.

| Primitive input/output      | Execution argument index                                                  |
|-----------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| \src                        | DNNL_ARG_SRC                                                              |
| \f$\gamma\f$                | DNNL_ARG_SCALE                                                            |
| \f$\beta\f$                 | DNNL_ARG_SHIFT                                                            |
| mean (\f$\mu\f$)            | DNNL_ARG_MEAN                                                             |
| variance* (\f$\sigma\f$)    | DNNL_ARG_VARIANCE                                                         |
| \dst                        | DNNL_ARG_DST                                                              |
| \diffdst                    | DNNL_ARG_DIFF_DST                                                         |
| \diffsrc                    | DNNL_ARG_DIFF_SRC                                                         |
| \diffgamma                  | DNNL_ARG_DIFF_SCALE                                                       |
| \diffbeta                   | DNNL_ARG_DIFF_SHIFT                                                       |
| \f$src scale\f$             | DNNL_ARG_ATTR_SCALES \| DNNL_ARG_SRC                                      |
| \f$dst scale\f$             | DNNL_ARG_ATTR_SCALES \| DNNL_ARG_DST                                      |
| \f$\text{binary post-op}\f$ | DNNL_ARG_ATTR_MULTIPLE_POST_OP(binary_post_op_position) \| DNNL_ARG_SRC_1,|
|                             | DNNL_ARG_ATTR_MULTIPLE_POST_OP(binary_post_op_position) \| DNNL_ARG_SRC_2 |

The variance is marked with an asterisk because, for RMS normalization, the root
mean square statistic is computed in place of the variance.

## Implementation Details

### General Notes

1. The different flavors of the primitive are partially controlled by the @p
   flags parameter that is passed to the primitive descriptor creation
   function (e.g., dnnl::layer_normalization_forward::primitive_desc()).
   Multiple flags can be set using the bitwise OR operator (`|`).

2. For forward propagation, the mean and variance might be either computed at
   runtime (in which case they are outputs of the primitive) or provided by
   a user (in which case they are inputs). In the latter case, a user must set
   the #dnnl_use_global_stats flag. For the backward propagation, the mean and
   variance are input parameters. In case of RMS normalization, the mean is never
   required or computed and the variance is replaced with the root mean square statistic.

3. Both forward and backward propagation support in-place operations, meaning
   that \src can be used as input and output for forward propagation, and
   \diffdst can be used as input and output for backward propagation. In case of
   an in-place operation, the original data will be overwritten. This support is
   limited to cases when data types of \src and \dst or \diffsrc and \diffdst
   are identical. Note, however, that backward propagation requires original
   \src, hence the corresponding forward propagation should not be performed
   in-place.

### Post-ops and Attributes

Attributes enable you to modify the behavior of the layer normalization
primitive. The following attributes are supported by the layer normalization
primitive:

| Propagation | Type      | Operation                                            | Description                                                   | Restrictions                                                                       |
|:------------|:----------|:-----------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| forward     | attribute | [Scales](@ref dnnl::primitive_attr::set_scales_mask) | Scales the corresponding tensor by the given scale factor(s). | Supported only for int8 layer normalization and one scale per tensor is supported. |
| forward     | Post-op   | [Binary](@ref dnnl::post_ops::append_binary)         | Applies a @ref dnnl_api_binary operation to the result.       | General binary post-op restrictions.                                               |

### Data Type Support

The operation supports the following combinations of data types:

| Propagation | Source                      | Destination                 | Scale and Shift|
|:------------|:----------------------------|:----------------------------|----------------|
| forward     | f32, bf16, f16, u8, s8, f64 | f32, bf16, f16, u8, s8, f64 | f32, bf16, f16 |
| backward    | f32, bf16, f16, f64         | f32, bf16, f16, f64         | f32, bf16, f16 |

Mean and Variance data types are always f32 and independent of Source and
Destination data types.

### Data Representation

#### Mean and Variance

The mean (\f$\mu\f$) and variance (\f$\sigma^2\f$) are separate tensors with
number of dimensions equal to (\f$data\_ndims - 1\f$) and size
\f$(data\_dim[0], data\_dim[1], ..., data\_dim[ndims - 2])\f$.

The corresponding memory object can have an arbitrary memory format. Unless mean
and variance are computed at runtime and not exposed (i.e., propagation kind is
#dnnl_forward_inference and #dnnl_use_global_stats is not set), the user should
provide a memory descriptor for statistics when creating the layer
normalization primitive descriptor. For best performance, it is advised to use
the memory format that follows the data memory format; i.e., if the data format
is #dnnl_tnc, the best performance can be expected for statistics with the
#dnnl_tn format and suboptimal for statistics with the #dnnl_nt format.

#### Scale and Shift

If #dnnl_use_scale or #dnnl_use_shift are used, the scale (\f$\gamma\f$) and
shift (\f$\beta\f$) are separate 1D tensors of shape \f$C\f$.

#### Source, Destination, and Their Gradients

The layer normalization primitive works with an arbitrary data tensor; however,
it was designed for RNN data tensors (i.e., #dnnl_nc, #dnnl_tnc, #dnnl_ldnc).
Unlike CNN data tensors, RNN data tensors have a single feature dimension.
Layer normalization performs normalization over the last logical dimension
(feature dimension for RNN tensors) across non-feature dimensions.

The layer normalization primitive is optimized for the following memory formats:

| Logical tensor | Implementations optimized for memory formats |
|:---------------|:---------------------------------------------|
| NC             | #dnnl_nc (#dnnl_ab)                          |
| TNC            | #dnnl_tnc (#dnnl_abc), #dnnl_ntc (#dnnl_bac) |
| LDNC           | #dnnl_ldnc (#dnnl_abcd)                      |

## Implementation Limitations

1. Refer to @ref dev_guide_data_types for limitations related to data types
   support.

2. **GPU**
   - Only tensors of 6 or fewer dimensions are supported.
   - Post-ops are not supported.

## Performance Tips
1. For data tensors \src, \dst, \diffsrc, and \diffdst, use memory formats
   for which the last logical axis is the last in the physical memory layout.

2. For `mean` and `variance`, use the memory format that follows the data memory
   format; i.e., if the data format is #dnnl_tnc, the best performance can be
   expected for statistics with #dnnl_tn and suboptimal for statistics with the
   #dnnl_nt format.

3. For backward propagation, use the same memory format for \src, \diffdst,
   and \diffsrc. Different formats are functionally supported but lead to
   highly suboptimal performance.

4. Use in-place operations whenever possible (see caveats in General Notes).

## Examples

See @ref dev_guide_examples page for a complete list. Layer normalization examples are listed in the
[Normalization Primitives](@ref examples_normalization) section.
