doc/primitives/lrn.md, before:

Local Response Normalization (LRN) {#dev_guide_lrn}
====================================================

>
> [API Reference](@ref dnnl_api_lrn)
>

## General

The LRN primitive performs a forward or backward local response normalization.

### Forward

The LRN operation is defined by the following formulas (the variable names
follow the standard @ref dev_guide_conventions):

LRN across channels:

\f[
    \dst(n, c, h, w) =
        \left\{k + \frac{\alpha}{n_{l}}
            \sum\limits_{i=-(n_{l}-1)/2}^{(n_{l}+1)/2-1}
                (\src(n, c+i, h, w))^2
        \right\}^{-\beta}
        \cdot
        \src(n, c, h, w),
\f]

LRN within a single channel:

\f[
    \dst(n, c, h, w) =
        \left\{k + \frac{\alpha}{n_{l}}
            \sum\limits_{i=-(n_{l}-1)/2}^{(n_{l}+1)/2-1}
            \sum\limits_{j=-(n_{l}-1)/2}^{(n_{l}+1)/2-1}
                (\src(n, c, h+i, w+j))^2
        \right\}^{-\beta}
        \cdot
        \src(n, c, h, w),
\f]

where \f$n_{l}\f$ is the @p local_size. Formulas are provided for 2D spatial
data case.

### Backward

The backward propagation computes \f$\diffsrc(n, c, h, w)\f$, based on
\f$\diffdst(n, c, h, w)\f$ and \f$\src(n, c, h, w)\f$.

## Execution Arguments

When executed, the inputs and outputs should be mapped to an execution
argument index as specified by the following table.

| Primitive input/output | Execution argument index |
|------------------------|--------------------------|
| \src                   | DNNL_ARG_SRC             |
| \dst                   | DNNL_ARG_DST             |
| workspace              | DNNL_ARG_WORKSPACE       |
| \diffsrc               | DNNL_ARG_DIFF_SRC        |
| \diffdst               | DNNL_ARG_DIFF_DST        |


## Implementation Details

### General Notes

1. During training, LRN might or might not require a workspace on forward and
   backward passes. The behavior is implementation specific. Optimized
   implementations typically require a workspace and use it to save some
   intermediate results from the forward pass that accelerate computations on
   the backward pass. To check whether a workspace is required, query the LRN
   primitive descriptor for the workspace. Success indicates that the workspace
   is required and its description will be returned.

### Data Type Support

The LRN primitive supports the following combinations of data types:

| Propagation        | Source / Destination |
|:-------------------|:---------------------|
| forward / backward | f32, bf16, f16       |

@warning
    There might be hardware and/or implementation specific restrictions. Check
    the [Implementation Limitations](@ref dg_lrn_impl_limits) section below.

### Data Representation

#### Source, Destination, and Their Gradients

Like most other primitives, the LRN primitive expects the following
tensors:

| Spatial | Source / Destination                        |
|:--------|:--------------------------------------------|
| 0D      | \f$N \times C\f$                            |
| 1D      | \f$N \times C \times W\f$                   |
| 2D      | \f$N \times C \times H \times W\f$          |
| 3D      | \f$N \times C \times D \times H \times W\f$ |

The LRN primitive is optimized for the following memory formats:

| Spatial | Logical tensor | Implementations optimized for memory formats                   |
|:--------|:---------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------|
| 2D      | NCHW           | #dnnl_nchw (#dnnl_abcd), #dnnl_nhwc (#dnnl_acdb), *optimized^* |

Here, *optimized^* means the format that
[comes out](@ref memory_format_propagation_cpp)
of any preceding compute-intensive primitive.

### Post-ops and Attributes

The LRN primitive does not support any post-ops or attributes.


@anchor dg_lrn_impl_limits
## Implementation Limitations

1. Refer to @ref dev_guide_data_types for limitations related to data types
   support.

2. **GPU**
    - Supports only 2D spatial case.


## Performance Tips

1. For backward propagation, use the same memory format for `src`, `diff_dst`,
   and `diff_src` (the format of the `diff_dst` and `diff_src` are always the
   same because of the API). Different formats are functionally supported but
   lead to highly suboptimal performance.

## Examples

* @ref lrn_example_cpp

Commit message:

doc: link to examples.md instead of duplicating lists

doc/primitives/lrn.md, after:

Local Response Normalization (LRN) {#dev_guide_lrn}
====================================================

>
> [API Reference](@ref dnnl_api_lrn)
>

## General

The LRN primitive performs a forward or backward local response normalization.

### Forward

The LRN operation is defined by the following formulas (the variable names
follow the standard @ref dev_guide_conventions):

LRN across channels:

\f[
    \dst(n, c, h, w) =
        \left\{k + \frac{\alpha}{n_{l}}
            \sum\limits_{i=-(n_{l}-1)/2}^{(n_{l}+1)/2-1}
                (\src(n, c+i, h, w))^2
        \right\}^{-\beta}
        \cdot
        \src(n, c, h, w),
\f]

LRN within a single channel:

\f[
    \dst(n, c, h, w) =
        \left\{k + \frac{\alpha}{n_{l}}
            \sum\limits_{i=-(n_{l}-1)/2}^{(n_{l}+1)/2-1}
            \sum\limits_{j=-(n_{l}-1)/2}^{(n_{l}+1)/2-1}
                (\src(n, c, h+i, w+j))^2
        \right\}^{-\beta}
        \cdot
        \src(n, c, h, w),
\f]

where \f$n_{l}\f$ is the @p local_size. Formulas are provided for 2D spatial
data case.

### Backward

The backward propagation computes \f$\diffsrc(n, c, h, w)\f$, based on
\f$\diffdst(n, c, h, w)\f$ and \f$\src(n, c, h, w)\f$.

## Execution Arguments

When executed, the inputs and outputs should be mapped to an execution
argument index as specified by the following table.

| Primitive input/output | Execution argument index |
|------------------------|--------------------------|
| \src                   | DNNL_ARG_SRC             |
| \dst                   | DNNL_ARG_DST             |
| workspace              | DNNL_ARG_WORKSPACE       |
| \diffsrc               | DNNL_ARG_DIFF_SRC        |
| \diffdst               | DNNL_ARG_DIFF_DST        |


## Implementation Details

### General Notes

1. During training, LRN might or might not require a workspace on forward and
   backward passes. The behavior is implementation specific. Optimized
   implementations typically require a workspace and use it to save some
   intermediate results from the forward pass that accelerate computations on
   the backward pass. To check whether a workspace is required, query the LRN
   primitive descriptor for the workspace. Success indicates that the workspace
   is required and its description will be returned.

### Data Type Support

The LRN primitive supports the following combinations of data types:

| Propagation        | Source / Destination |
|:-------------------|:---------------------|
| forward / backward | f32, bf16, f16       |

@warning
    There might be hardware and/or implementation specific restrictions. Check
    the [Implementation Limitations](@ref dg_lrn_impl_limits) section below.

### Data Representation

#### Source, Destination, and Their Gradients

Like most other primitives, the LRN primitive expects the following
tensors:

| Spatial | Source / Destination                        |
|:--------|:--------------------------------------------|
| 0D      | \f$N \times C\f$                            |
| 1D      | \f$N \times C \times W\f$                   |
| 2D      | \f$N \times C \times H \times W\f$          |
| 3D      | \f$N \times C \times D \times H \times W\f$ |

The LRN primitive is optimized for the following memory formats:

| Spatial | Logical tensor | Implementations optimized for memory formats                   |
|:--------|:---------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------|
| 2D      | NCHW           | #dnnl_nchw (#dnnl_abcd), #dnnl_nhwc (#dnnl_acdb), *optimized^* |

Here, *optimized^* means the format that
[comes out](@ref memory_format_propagation_cpp)
of any preceding compute-intensive primitive.

### Post-ops and Attributes

The LRN primitive does not support any post-ops or attributes.


@anchor dg_lrn_impl_limits
## Implementation Limitations

1. Refer to @ref dev_guide_data_types for limitations related to data types
   support.

2. **GPU**
    - Supports only 2D spatial case.


## Performance Tips

1. For backward propagation, use the same memory format for `src`, `diff_dst`,
   and `diff_src` (the format of the `diff_dst` and `diff_src` are always the
   same because of the API). Different formats are functionally supported but
   lead to highly suboptimal performance.

## Examples

See @ref dev_guide_examples page for a complete list. LRN examples are listed in the
[Normalization Primitives](@ref examples_normalization) section.
