doc/primitives/matmul.md, before:

Matrix Multiplication {#dev_guide_matmul}
=========================================

>
> [API Reference](@ref dnnl_api_matmul)
>

## General

The matrix multiplication (MatMul) primitive computes the product of two 2D
tensors with optional bias addition (the variable names follow the standard @ref
dev_guide_conventions):

\f[
    \dst(m, n) =
        \sum_{k=0}^{K - 1} \left(
            \src(m, k) \cdot \weights(k, n)
        \right) +
        \bias(m, n)
\f]

The MatMul primitive also supports batching multiple independent matrix
multiplication operations, in which case the tensors can be up to 12D:

\f[
    \dst(bs_0, bs_1, \ldots, m, n) =
        \sum_{k=0}^{K - 1} \left(
            \src(bs_0, bs_1, \ldots, m, k) \cdot
            \weights(bs_0, bs_1, \ldots, k, n) \right) + \bias(bs_0, bs_1, \ldots, m, n)
\f]

MatMul also supports implicit broadcast semantics i.e., \src can be broadcasted
into \weights if the corresponding dimension in \src is 1 (and vice versa).
However, all tensors (including \bias, if it exists) must have the same number
of dimensions.

The shape of \dst only depends on \src and \weights tensors. The \bias cannot
change the dimensions of \dst by broadcasting. In other words, for every
dimension, the following constraint must hold true:
`dimension(bias) == dimension(dst) || dimension(bias) == 1`.

## Execution Arguments

When executed, the inputs and outputs should be mapped to an execution
argument index as specified by the following table.

| Primitive input/output           | Execution argument index                                                   |
|----------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| \src                             | DNNL_ARG_SRC                                                               |
| \weights                         | DNNL_ARG_WEIGHTS                                                           |
| \bias                            | DNNL_ARG_BIAS                                                              |
| \dst                             | DNNL_ARG_DST                                                               |
| \f$\text{dropout output mask}\f$ | DNNL_ARG_ATTR_DROPOUT_MASK                                                 |
| \f$\text{dropout probability}\f$ | DNNL_ARG_ATTR_DROPOUT_PROBABILITY                                          |
| \f$\text{dropout rng seed}\f$    | DNNL_ARG_ATTR_DROPOUT_SEED                                                 |
| \f$\text{binary post-op}\f$      | DNNL_ARG_ATTR_MULTIPLE_POST_OP(binary_post_op_position) \| DNNL_ARG_SRC_1, |
|                                  | DNNL_ARG_ATTR_MULTIPLE_POST_OP(binary_post_op_position) \| DNNL_ARG_SRC_2  |
| \f$\text{prelu post-op}\f$       | DNNL_ARG_ATTR_MULTIPLE_POST_OP(prelu_post_op_position) \| DNNL_ARG_WEIGHTS |

## Implementation Details

### General Notes

1. The MatMul primitive supports input and output tensors with run-time
   specified shapes and memory formats. The run-time specified dimensions or
   strides are specified using the #DNNL_RUNTIME_DIM_VAL wildcard value during
   the primitive initialization and creation stage. At the execution stage, the
   user must pass fully specified memory objects so that the primitive is able
   to perform the computations. Note that the less information about shapes
   or format is available at the creation stage, the less performant execution
   will be.  In particular, if the shape is not known at the creation stage, you
   cannot use the special format tag #dnnl::memory::format_tag::any to enable an
   implementation to choose the most appropriate memory format for the
   corresponding input or output shapes. On the other hand, run-time specified
   shapes enable users to create a primitive once and use it in different
   situations.

2. Inconsistency with dimensions being "primitive-creation-time-defined" vs
   "runtime-defined" is invalid. For example, \src and \weights with dimensions
   set to `{3, 4, 4}` and `{DNNL_RUNTIME_DIM_VAL, 4, 4}` respectively is
   invalid.

3. The broadcasting shape consistency check is not done for the dimensions with
   #DNNL_RUNTIME_DIM_VAL. Make sure the dimensions
   for the tensors are valid.

4. Multiple batch dimensions and broadcasting of batch dimensions of `src` and
   `weights` are supported for both CPU and GPU engines.

   Check the tutorials below to see #DNNL_RUNTIME_DIM_VAL support in use.

### Data Types

The MatMul primitive supports the following combinations of data
types for source, destination, weights, and bias tensors:


| Source           | Weights                                | Destination                      | Bias                        |
|:-----------------|:---------------------------------------|:---------------------------------|:----------------------------|
| f64              | f64                                    | f64                              | f64, f32, f16, bf16, s8, u8 |
| f32              | f32                                    | f32                              | f32, bf16, f16, u8, s8      |
| f16              | f16, u8, s8, u4, s4                    | f16, u8, s8                      | f32                         |
| f16              | f16, u8, s8                            | f32                              | f32, f16                    |
| bf16             | bf16, u8, s8, u4, s4                   | f32, bf16                        | f32, bf16                   |
| f32, bf16, f16   | u8, s8                                 | f32, bf16, f16                   | f32, bf16, f16              |
| f32, bf16, f16   | u8, s8                                 | f32, bf16, f16                   | f32, bf16, f16              |
| bf16, f16        | f8_e5m2, f8_e4m3, f4_e2m1, f4_e3m0     | f32, f16, bf16                   | f32, bf16, f16              |
| f8_e5m2, f8_e4m3 | f8_e5m2, f8_e4m3                       | f32, f16, bf16, f8_e5m2, f8_e4m3 | f32, bf16, f16              |
| f4_e2m1, f4_e3m0 | f4_e2m1, f4_e3m0                       | f32, f16, bf16, f4_e2m1, f4_e3m0 | f32, bf16, f16              |
| u8, s8           | u8, s8, u4, s4                         | u8, s8, s32, f32, f16, bf16      | u8, s8, s32, f32, f16, bf16 |



### Data Representation

The MatMul primitive expects the following tensors:

| Dims | Source                          | Weights                         | Destination                     | Bias                                                      |
|:-----|:--------------------------------|:--------------------------------|:--------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------|
| 2D   | M \f$\times\f$ K                | K \f$\times\f$ N                | M \f$\times\f$ N                | None or \f$(M \text{ or } 1) \times (N  \text{ or } 1)\f$ |
| ND   | S \f$\times\f$ M \f$\times\f$ K | W \f$\times\f$ K \f$\times\f$ N | D \f$\times\f$ M \f$\times\f$ N | None or B                                                 |

where for the sake of notational convenience, we have

\f[
S = \prod_{i = 0}^{ND - 3} \mathrm{src\_dims}[i], \; W = \prod_{i = 0}^{ND - 3} \mathrm{weights\_dims}[i] \\
D = \prod_{i = 0}^{ND - 3} \mathrm{\dst\_dims}[i], \; B = \prod_{i = 0}^{ND - 1} \left( \mathrm{\dst\_dims}[i] \mbox{ or } 1 \right)
\f]

The MatMul primitive is generally optimized for the case in which memory objects
use plain memory formats. Additionally, the \src and \weights must have at least
one of the axes `m` or `k` and `n` or `k` contiguous (i.e., stride=1)
respectively. However, it is recommended to use the placeholder memory format
#dnnl::memory::format_tag::any if an input tensor is reused across multiple
executions. In this case, the primitive will set the most appropriate memory
format for the corresponding input tensor.

The memory format of the destination tensor should always be plain with `n` axis
contiguous. For example, #dnnl::memory::format_tag::ab for the 2D case and
#dnnl::memory::format_tag::abc or #dnnl::memory::format_tag::bac for the 3D one.

### Attributes and Post-ops

Attributes and post-ops enable modifying the behavior of the MatMul primitive.
The following attributes and post-ops are supported:

| Type      | Operation                                                      | Description                                                                   | Restrictions                        |
|:----------|:---------------------------------------------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:------------------------------------|
| Attribute | [Scales](@ref dnnl::primitive_attr::set_scales_mask)           | Scales the result by given scaling factor(s)                                    |                                     |
| Attribute | [Zero-points](@ref dnnl::primitive_attr::set_zero_points_mask) | Sets zero-point(s) for the corresponding tensors                              | `int8` computations only              |
| Attribute | [Dropout](@ref dnnl::primitive_attr::set_dropout)              | Applies pseudo-random dropout to destination buffer, also fills mask buffer   |                                     |
| Attribute | [Precomputed reductions](@ref dnnl::primitive_attr::set_precomputed_reductions) | Sets precomputed reductions for the corresponding tensors  |  Requires weight zero-points and full matrix mask |
| Post-op   | [Eltwise](@ref dnnl::post_ops::append_eltwise)                 | Applies an @ref dnnl_api_eltwise operation to the result                      |                                     |
| Post-op   | [Sum](@ref dnnl::post_ops::append_sum)                         | Adds the operation result to the destination tensor instead of overwriting it |                                     |
| Post-op   | [Binary](@ref dnnl::post_ops::append_binary)                   | Applies a @ref dnnl_api_binary operation to the result                        | General binary post-op restrictions |
| Post-op   | [Prelu](@ref dnnl::post_ops::append_prelu)                     | Applies an @ref dnnl_api_prelu operation to the result                        |                                     |

The following masks are supported by the primitive:
- 0, which applies one scale / zero point value to an entire tensor, and
- 2, which applies a scale value per column along the
  `n`dimension for `DNNL_ARG_WEIGHTS`.

When scales and/or zero-points masks are specified, the user must
provide the corresponding scales and/or zero-points as additional
input memory objects with argument `DNNL_ARG_ATTR_SCALES |
DNNL_ARG_${MEMORY_INDEX}` or `DNNL_ARG_ATTR_ZERO_POINTS |
DNNL_ARG_${MEMORY_INDEX}` during the execution stage. For instance, a
source tensor zero points memory argument would be passed with index
(`DNNL_ARG_ATTR_ZERO_POINTS | DNNL_ARG_SRC`).

When Dropout is specified, at the execution stage the user must provide 2 input
memory objects with `DNNL_ARG_ATTR_DROPOUT_PROBABILITY` (1x1x...x1 f32 value
from 0.f to 1.f) and `DNNL_ARG_DROPOUT_SEED` (1x1x...x1 s32 value from INT_MIN
to INT_MAX), and 1 output memory object with `DNNL_ARG_ATTR_DROPOUT_MASK` (u8
memory buffer that shares its shape with the destination buffer).

@note Please check tutorials below to see run-time attributes in use.

### Sparsity

#### CSR encoding
Supported only for the CPU engine. Only one of the input tensors can be sparse.
The output tensor is always dense.

The following data type combinations are supported:

| Values (src, weight, dst)   | Indices  |
|:----------------------------|:---------|
| f16, f16, f16               | s32      |
| f32, f32, f32               | s32      |

The following format tags are supported for dense input/output
tensors:

* ab

See the example [here](@ref cpu_matmul_csr_cpp).

Benchdnn can be used to test matmul with a CSR input tensor as follows:
`./benchdnn --matmul --encoding=csr+0.99:: --wtag=ab --dtag=ab 4x1000000:1000000x128`

For the case above, the number of non-zero elements for the source tensor is
calculated as max(4 * 1000000 * (1 - 0.99), 1).

#### COO encoding
Supported only for the CPU and GPU engines. Only one of the input tensors can
be sparse. The output tensor is always dense.

The following data type combinations are supported:

| Values (src, weight, dst)   | Indices  |
|:----------------------------|:---------|
| f16, f16, f16               | s32      |
| f32, f32, f32               | s32      |

The following format tags are supported for dense weights tensor:

* ab
* ba

The following format tags are supported for dense destination tensor:

* ab

See the example [here](@ref cpu_matmul_coo_cpp).

Benchdnn can be used to test matmul with a COO input tensor as follows:
`./benchdnn --matmul --encoding=coo+0.99:: --wtag=ab --dtag=ab 4x1000000:1000000x128`

For the case above, the number of non-zero elements for the source tensor is
calculated as max(4 * 1000000 * (1 - 0.99), 1).

#### PACKED encoding

Only the weights tensor is allowed to be sparse. The other tensors
are always dense.

In general, it is expected that all matmul related functionality (e.g. post-ops,
scales, zero-points, etc) that is supported for the dense weights should
also work for the sparse weights.

Currently, matmul has the following limitations for the PACKED encoding:
* Supported only for the CPU engine
* Only Intel Advanced Matrix Extensions (Intel AMX) instruction set
architecture (ISA) is supported
* Only `s8` data type for the weights is supported
* Only 1 batch dimension is supported

See the example [here](@ref cpu_matmul_weights_compression_cpp).

Benchdnn can be used to test matmul with the PACKED weights tensor as follows:
`./benchdnn --matmul --dt=s8:s8:s32 --encoding=:packed+0.99: 3x512x1024:1x1024x512`

For the case above, the number of non-zero elements for the weights tensor is
calculated as max(1024 * 512 * (1 - 0.99), 1).

Refer to [Sparsity Advanced Topic](@ref dev_guide_sparsity) page for more
information on sparse encding.

## Implementation Limitations

1. Check @ref dev_guide_data_types.

2. **GPU**
   - Supports up to 6 dimensions.
   - Source zero point mask of `0` is only supported.
   - Sum post-op doesn't support data type other than destination data type.
   - Bias of bf16 data type is supported for configuration with bf16 source data
     type and weights bf16 data type, and up to three dimensional matrices.
   - Optimized implementations for fp8 data type are available only on Intel(R)
     Data Center GPU Max Series and Intel(R) Xe2 Graphics.
   - Configuration with int8 source data type, s8 weight data type and bf16
     destination data type don't support:
     * Destination zero point.
     * Runtime dimensions.
     * Three and higher dimensional matrices.
   - The layout of dropout mask has to be exactly the same as that of dst.


3. **CPU**
   - Configuration with int8 source data type, s8 weight data type and f16
     destination data type isn't supported.
   - Configuration with floating point source data type, integer weights data
     type and floating point destination data type is not optimized.
   - The layout of dropout mask has to be exactly the same as that of dst.

## Performance Tips

- Use #dnnl::memory::format_tag::any for either of the input tensors if and
  only if the shape of the corresponding tensor is fully known at creation
  time and it is possible to cache reordered tensors across multiple primitive
  executions. For instance, a good candidate for reuse are the weights tensors
  during inference: their shapes and data types are known in advance; thus
  they can be reordered during the first inference pass and can be reused
  during the subsequent passes. However, if any of the input tensors cannot be
  reused, it is best to force the primitive to use the same format as that used
  by the tensors.

## Examples

* @ref matmul_example_cpp
* @ref cpu_sgemm_and_matmul_cpp
* @ref inference_int8_matmul_cpp
* @ref cpu_matmul_quantization_cpp
* @ref weights_decompression_matmul_cpp
* @ref mxfp_matmul_cpp

Commit message:

x64: matmul: Update weight decompression docs & examples

doc/primitives/matmul.md, after:

Matrix Multiplication {#dev_guide_matmul}
=========================================

>
> [API Reference](@ref dnnl_api_matmul)
>

## General

The matrix multiplication (MatMul) primitive computes the product of two 2D
tensors with optional bias addition (the variable names follow the standard @ref
dev_guide_conventions):

\f[
    \dst(m, n) =
        \sum_{k=0}^{K - 1} \left(
            \src(m, k) \cdot \weights(k, n)
        \right) +
        \bias(m, n)
\f]

The MatMul primitive also supports batching multiple independent matrix
multiplication operations, in which case the tensors can be up to 12D:

\f[
    \dst(bs_0, bs_1, \ldots, m, n) =
        \sum_{k=0}^{K - 1} \left(
            \src(bs_0, bs_1, \ldots, m, k) \cdot
            \weights(bs_0, bs_1, \ldots, k, n) \right) + \bias(bs_0, bs_1, \ldots, m, n)
\f]

MatMul also supports implicit broadcast semantics i.e., \src can be broadcasted
into \weights if the corresponding dimension in \src is 1 (and vice versa).
However, all tensors (including \bias, if it exists) must have the same number
of dimensions.

The shape of \dst only depends on \src and \weights tensors. The \bias cannot
change the dimensions of \dst by broadcasting. In other words, for every
dimension, the following constraint must hold true:
`dimension(bias) == dimension(dst) || dimension(bias) == 1`.

## Execution Arguments

When executed, the inputs and outputs should be mapped to an execution
argument index as specified by the following table.

| Primitive input/output           | Execution argument index                                                   |
|----------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| \src                             | DNNL_ARG_SRC                                                               |
| \weights                         | DNNL_ARG_WEIGHTS                                                           |
| \bias                            | DNNL_ARG_BIAS                                                              |
| \dst                             | DNNL_ARG_DST                                                               |
| \f$\text{dropout output mask}\f$ | DNNL_ARG_ATTR_DROPOUT_MASK                                                 |
| \f$\text{dropout probability}\f$ | DNNL_ARG_ATTR_DROPOUT_PROBABILITY                                          |
| \f$\text{dropout rng seed}\f$    | DNNL_ARG_ATTR_DROPOUT_SEED                                                 |
| \f$\text{binary post-op}\f$      | DNNL_ARG_ATTR_MULTIPLE_POST_OP(binary_post_op_position) \| DNNL_ARG_SRC_1, |
|                                  | DNNL_ARG_ATTR_MULTIPLE_POST_OP(binary_post_op_position) \| DNNL_ARG_SRC_2  |
| \f$\text{prelu post-op}\f$       | DNNL_ARG_ATTR_MULTIPLE_POST_OP(prelu_post_op_position) \| DNNL_ARG_WEIGHTS |

## Implementation Details

### General Notes

1. The MatMul primitive supports input and output tensors with run-time
   specified shapes and memory formats. The run-time specified dimensions or
   strides are specified using the #DNNL_RUNTIME_DIM_VAL wildcard value during
   the primitive initialization and creation stage. At the execution stage, the
   user must pass fully specified memory objects so that the primitive is able
   to perform the computations. Note that the less information about shapes
   or format is available at the creation stage, the less performant execution
   will be.  In particular, if the shape is not known at the creation stage, you
   cannot use the special format tag #dnnl::memory::format_tag::any to enable an
   implementation to choose the most appropriate memory format for the
   corresponding input or output shapes. On the other hand, run-time specified
   shapes enable users to create a primitive once and use it in different
   situations.

2. Inconsistency with dimensions being "primitive-creation-time-defined" vs
   "runtime-defined" is invalid. For example, \src and \weights with dimensions
   set to `{3, 4, 4}` and `{DNNL_RUNTIME_DIM_VAL, 4, 4}` respectively is
   invalid.

3. The broadcasting shape consistency check is not done for the dimensions with
   #DNNL_RUNTIME_DIM_VAL. Make sure the dimensions
   for the tensors are valid.

4. Multiple batch dimensions and broadcasting of batch dimensions of `src` and
   `weights` are supported for both CPU and GPU engines.

   Check the tutorials below to see #DNNL_RUNTIME_DIM_VAL support in use.

### Data Types

The MatMul primitive supports the following combinations of data
types for source, destination, weights, and bias tensors:


| Source           | Weights                                | Destination                      | Bias                        |
|:-----------------|:---------------------------------------|:---------------------------------|:----------------------------|
| f64              | f64                                    | f64                              | f64, f32, f16, bf16, s8, u8 |
| f32              | f32, u8, s8, u4, s4                    | f32                              | f32, bf16, f16, u8, s8      |
| f16              | f16, u8, s8, u4, s4                    | f16, u8, s8                      | f32                         |
| f16              | f16, u8, s8, u4, s4                    | f32, f16                         | f32, f16                    |
| bf16             | bf16, u8, s8, u4, s4                   | f32, bf16                        | f32, bf16                   |
| f32, bf16, f16   | u8, s8, u4, s4                         | f32, bf16, f16                   | f32, bf16, f16              |
| bf16, f16        | f8_e5m2, f8_e4m3, f4_e2m1, f4_e3m0     | f32, f16, bf16                   | f32, bf16, f16              |
| f8_e5m2, f8_e4m3 | f8_e5m2, f8_e4m3                       | f32, f16, bf16, f8_e5m2, f8_e4m3 | f32, bf16, f16              |
| f4_e2m1, f4_e3m0 | f4_e2m1, f4_e3m0                       | f32, f16, bf16, f4_e2m1, f4_e3m0 | f32, bf16, f16              |
| u8, s8           | u8, s8, u4, s4                         | u8, s8, s32, f32, f16, bf16      | u8, s8, s32, f32, f16, bf16 |



### Data Representation

The MatMul primitive expects the following tensors:

| Dims | Source                          | Weights                         | Destination                     | Bias                                                      |
|:-----|:--------------------------------|:--------------------------------|:--------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------|
| 2D   | M \f$\times\f$ K                | K \f$\times\f$ N                | M \f$\times\f$ N                | None or \f$(M \text{ or } 1) \times (N  \text{ or } 1)\f$ |
| ND   | S \f$\times\f$ M \f$\times\f$ K | W \f$\times\f$ K \f$\times\f$ N | D \f$\times\f$ M \f$\times\f$ N | None or B                                                 |

where for the sake of notational convenience, we have

\f[
S = \prod_{i = 0}^{ND - 3} \mathrm{src\_dims}[i], \; W = \prod_{i = 0}^{ND - 3} \mathrm{weights\_dims}[i] \\
D = \prod_{i = 0}^{ND - 3} \mathrm{\dst\_dims}[i], \; B = \prod_{i = 0}^{ND - 1} \left( \mathrm{\dst\_dims}[i] \mbox{ or } 1 \right)
\f]

The MatMul primitive is generally optimized for the case in which memory objects
use plain memory formats. Additionally, the \src and \weights must have at least
one of the axes `m` or `k` and `n` or `k` contiguous (i.e., stride=1)
respectively. However, it is recommended to use the placeholder memory format
#dnnl::memory::format_tag::any if an input tensor is reused across multiple
executions. In this case, the primitive will set the most appropriate memory
format for the corresponding input tensor.

The memory format of the destination tensor should always be plain with `n` axis
contiguous. For example, #dnnl::memory::format_tag::ab for the 2D case and
#dnnl::memory::format_tag::abc or #dnnl::memory::format_tag::bac for the 3D one.

### Attributes and Post-ops

Attributes and post-ops enable modifying the behavior of the MatMul primitive.
The following attributes and post-ops are supported:

| Type      | Operation                                                      | Description                                                                   | Restrictions                        |
|:----------|:---------------------------------------------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:------------------------------------|
| Attribute | [Scales](@ref dnnl::primitive_attr::set_scales_mask)           | Scales the result by given scaling factor(s)                                  |                                     |
| Attribute | [Zero-points](@ref dnnl::primitive_attr::set_zero_points_mask) | Sets zero-point(s) for the corresponding tensors                              |                                     |
| Attribute | [Dropout](@ref dnnl::primitive_attr::set_dropout)              | Applies pseudo-random dropout to destination buffer, also fills mask buffer   |                                     |
| Attribute | [Precomputed reductions](@ref dnnl::primitive_attr::set_precomputed_reductions) | Sets precomputed reductions for the corresponding tensors  |  Requires weight zero-points and full matrix mask |
| Post-op   | [Eltwise](@ref dnnl::post_ops::append_eltwise)                 | Applies an @ref dnnl_api_eltwise operation to the result                      |                                     |
| Post-op   | [Sum](@ref dnnl::post_ops::append_sum)                         | Adds the operation result to the destination tensor instead of overwriting it |                                     |
| Post-op   | [Binary](@ref dnnl::post_ops::append_binary)                   | Applies a @ref dnnl_api_binary operation to the result                        | General binary post-op restrictions |
| Post-op   | [Prelu](@ref dnnl::post_ops::append_prelu)                     | Applies an @ref dnnl_api_prelu operation to the result                        |                                     |

The following masks are supported by the primitive:
- 0, which applies one scale / zero point value to an entire tensor
- 1, which applies a scale / zero point values along `k`-dimension
  for `DNNL_ARG_WEIGHTS`. Values could be grouped along this dimension
  via specifying scales / zero points shapes for the attribute
  (see the code example @ref weights_decompression_matmul_cpp).
- 2, which applies a scale / zero point values per column along the
  `n`-dimension for `DNNL_ARG_WEIGHTS`.

When scales and/or zero-points masks are specified, the user must
provide the corresponding scales and/or zero-points as additional
input memory objects with argument `DNNL_ARG_ATTR_SCALES |
DNNL_ARG_${MEMORY_INDEX}` or `DNNL_ARG_ATTR_ZERO_POINTS |
DNNL_ARG_${MEMORY_INDEX}` during the execution stage. For instance, a
source tensor zero points memory argument would be passed with index
(`DNNL_ARG_ATTR_ZERO_POINTS | DNNL_ARG_SRC`).

When Dropout is specified, at the execution stage the user must provide 2 input
memory objects with `DNNL_ARG_ATTR_DROPOUT_PROBABILITY` (1x1x...x1 f32 value
from 0.f to 1.f) and `DNNL_ARG_DROPOUT_SEED` (1x1x...x1 s32 value from INT_MIN
to INT_MAX), and 1 output memory object with `DNNL_ARG_ATTR_DROPOUT_MASK` (u8
memory buffer that shares its shape with the destination buffer).

@note Please check tutorials below to see run-time attributes in use.

### Sparsity

#### CSR encoding
Supported only for the CPU engine. Only one of the input tensors can be sparse.
The output tensor is always dense.

The following data type combinations are supported:

| Values (src, weight, dst)   | Indices  |
|:----------------------------|:---------|
| f16, f16, f16               | s32      |
| f32, f32, f32               | s32      |

The following format tags are supported for dense input/output
tensors:

* ab

See the example [here](@ref cpu_matmul_csr_cpp).

Benchdnn can be used to test matmul with a CSR input tensor as follows:
`./benchdnn --matmul --encoding=csr+0.99:: --wtag=ab --dtag=ab 4x1000000:1000000x128`

For the case above, the number of non-zero elements for the source tensor is
calculated as max(4 * 1000000 * (1 - 0.99), 1).

#### COO encoding
Supported only for the CPU and GPU engines. Only one of the input tensors can
be sparse. The output tensor is always dense.

The following data type combinations are supported:

| Values (src, weight, dst)   | Indices  |
|:----------------------------|:---------|
| f16, f16, f16               | s32      |
| f32, f32, f32               | s32      |

The following format tags are supported for dense weights tensor:

* ab
* ba

The following format tags are supported for dense destination tensor:

* ab

See the example [here](@ref cpu_matmul_coo_cpp).

Benchdnn can be used to test matmul with a COO input tensor as follows:
`./benchdnn --matmul --encoding=coo+0.99:: --wtag=ab --dtag=ab 4x1000000:1000000x128`

For the case above, the number of non-zero elements for the source tensor is
calculated as max(4 * 1000000 * (1 - 0.99), 1).

#### PACKED encoding

Only the weights tensor is allowed to be sparse. The other tensors
are always dense.

In general, it is expected that all matmul related functionality (e.g. post-ops,
scales, zero-points, etc) that is supported for the dense weights should
also work for the sparse weights.

Currently, matmul has the following limitations for the PACKED encoding:
* Supported only for the CPU engine
* Only Intel Advanced Matrix Extensions (Intel AMX) instruction set
architecture (ISA) is supported
* Only `s8` data type for the weights is supported
* Only 1 batch dimension is supported

See the example [here](@ref cpu_matmul_weights_compression_cpp).

Benchdnn can be used to test matmul with the PACKED weights tensor as follows:
`./benchdnn --matmul --dt=s8:s8:s32 --encoding=:packed+0.99: 3x512x1024:1x1024x512`

For the case above, the number of non-zero elements for the weights tensor is
calculated as max(1024 * 512 * (1 - 0.99), 1).

Refer to [Sparsity Advanced Topic](@ref dev_guide_sparsity) page for more
information on sparse encding.

## Implementation Limitations

1. Check @ref dev_guide_data_types.

2. **GPU**
   - Supports up to 6 dimensions.
   - Source zero point mask of `0` is only supported.
   - Sum post-op doesn't support data type other than destination data type.
   - Bias of bf16 data type is supported for configuration with bf16 source data
     type and weights bf16 data type, and up to three dimensional matrices.
   - Optimized implementations for fp8 data type are available only on Intel(R)
     Data Center GPU Max Series and Intel(R) Xe2 Graphics.
   - Configuration with int8 source data type, s8 weight data type and bf16
     destination data type don't support:
     * Destination zero point.
     * Runtime dimensions.
     * Three and higher dimensional matrices.
   - The layout of dropout mask has to be exactly the same as that of dst.


3. **CPU**
   - Configuration with int8 source data type, s8 weight data type and f16
     destination data type isn't supported.
   - Configuration with floating point source data type, integer weights data
     type and floating point destination data type is not optimized.
   - The layout of dropout mask has to be exactly the same as that of dst.

## Performance Tips

- Use #dnnl::memory::format_tag::any for either of the input tensors if and
  only if the shape of the corresponding tensor is fully known at creation
  time and it is possible to cache reordered tensors across multiple primitive
  executions. For instance, a good candidate for reuse are the weights tensors
  during inference: their shapes and data types are known in advance; thus
  they can be reordered during the first inference pass and can be reused
  during the subsequent passes. However, if any of the input tensors cannot be
  reused, it is best to force the primitive to use the same format as that used
  by the tensors.

## Examples

* @ref matmul_example_cpp
* @ref cpu_sgemm_and_matmul_cpp
* @ref inference_int8_matmul_cpp
* @ref cpu_matmul_quantization_cpp
* @ref weights_decompression_matmul_cpp
* @ref mxfp_matmul_cpp
