doc/programming_model/basic_concepts.md, before:

Basic Concepts {#dev_guide_basic_concepts}
==========================================

## Introduction

In this page, an outline of the oneDNN programming model is presented, and the
key concepts are discussed, including *Primitives*, *Engines*, *Streams*, and
*Memory Objects*. In essence, the oneDNN programming model consists in executing
one or several *primitives* to process data in one or several *memory objects*.
The execution is performed on an *engine* in the context of a *stream*. The
relationship between these entities is briefly presented in Figure 1, which also
includes additional concepts relevant to the oneDNN programming model, such as
primitive *attributes* and *descriptors*. These concepts are described below in
much more details.

@img{img_programming_model.png,Figure 1: Overview of oneDNN programming model. Blue rectangles denote oneDNN objects\, and red lines denote dependencies between objects.,60%,}

### Primitives

oneDNN is built around the notion of a *primitive* (@ref dnnl::primitive). A
*primitive* is an object that encapsulates a particular computation such as
forward convolution, backward LSTM computations, or a data transformation
operation. Additionally, using primitive *attributes* (@ref
dnnl::primitive_attr) certain primitives can represent more complex *fused*
computations such as a forward convolution followed by a ReLU.

The most important difference between a primitive and a pure function is that
a primitive can store state.

One part of the primitive’s state is immutable. For example, convolution
primitives store parameters like tensor shapes and can pre-compute other
dependent parameters like cache blocking. This approach allows oneDNN primitives
to pre-generate code specifically tailored for the operation to be performed.
The oneDNN programming model assumes that the time it takes to perform the
pre-computations is amortized by reusing the same primitive to perform
computations multiple times.

The mutable part of the primitive’s state is referred to as a scratchpad. It
is a memory buffer that a primitive may use for temporary storage only during
computations. The scratchpad can either be owned by a primitive object (which
makes that object non-thread safe) or be an execution-time parameter.

### Engines

*Engines* (@ref dnnl::engine) is an abstraction of a computational device: a
CPU, a specific GPU card in the system, etc. Most primitives are created to
execute computations on one specific engine. The only exceptions are reorder
primitives that transfer data between two different engines.

### Streams

*Streams* (@ref dnnl::stream) encapsulate execution context tied to a
particular engine. For example, they can correspond to OpenCL command queues.

### Memory Objects

*Memory objects* (@ref dnnl::memory) encapsulate handles to memory allocated
on a specific engine, tensor dimensions, data type, and memory format – the
way tensor indices map to offsets in linear memory space. Memory objects are
passed to primitives during execution.

## Levels of Abstraction

Conceptually, oneDNN has multiple levels of abstractions for primitives and
memory objects in order to expose maximum flexibility to its users.

* Memory descriptors (@ref dnnl_memory_desc_t, @ref dnnl::memory::desc)
  define a tensor’s logical dimensions, data type, and the format in which the
  data is laid out in memory. The special format any
  (@ref dnnl::memory::format_tag::any) indicates that the actual format will be
  defined later (see @ref memory_format_propagation_cpp).

* Primitives descriptors fully define an operations's computation
  using the memory descriptors (@ref dnnl_memory_desc_t, @ref dnnl::memory::desc)
  passed at construction, as well as the attributes. They also dispatch specific
  implementation based on the engine. Primitive descriptors can be
  used to query various primitive implementation details and, for
  example, to implement @ref memory_format_propagation_cpp by inspecting
  expected memory formats via queries without having to fully instantiate
  a primitive. oneDNN may contain multiple implementations for the same
  primitive that can be used to perform the same particular computation.
  Primitive descriptors allow one-way iteration which allows inspecting multiple
  implementations. The library is expected to order the implementations from
  the most to least preferred, so it should always be safe to use the one that
  is chosen by default.

* Primitives, which are the most concrete, and embody the actual
  executable code that will be run to perform the primitive computation.

## Creating Memory Objects and Primitives

### Memory Objects

Memory objects are created from the memory descriptors. It is not possible to
create a memory object from a memory descriptor that has memory format set to
#dnnl::memory::format_tag::any.

There are two common ways for initializing memory descriptors:

* By using @ref dnnl::memory::desc constructors or by extracting a
  descriptor for a part of a tensor via
  @ref dnnl::memory::desc::submemory_desc

* By *querying* an existing primitive descriptor for a memory descriptor
  corresponding to one of the primitive's parameters (for example, @ref
  dnnl::convolution_forward::primitive_desc::src_desc).

Memory objects can be created with a user-provided handle (a `void *` on CPU),
or without one, in which case the library will allocate storage space on its
own.

### Primitives

The sequence of actions to create a primitive is:

1. Create a primitive descriptor via, for example, @ref
   dnnl::convolution_forward::primitive_desc. The primitive descriptor
   can contain memory descriptors with placeholder
   [format_tag::any](@ref dnnl::memory::format_tag::any)
   memory formats if the primitive supports it.

2. Create a primitive based on the primitive descriptor obtained in step 1.

## Graph Extension

Graph extension is a high level abstraction in oneDNN that allows you to work
with a computation graph instead of individual primitives. This approach allows
you to make an operation fusion:

* Transparent: the integration efforts are reduced by abstracting backend-aware
  fusion logic.

* Scalable: no integration code change is necessary to benefit from new fusion
  patterns enabled in oneDNN.

The programming model for the graph extension is detailed in the
[graph basic concepts section](@ref dev_guide_graph_basic_concepts).

## Micro-kernel Extension

The Micro-kernel API extension (ukernel API) is a low-level abstraction in
oneDNN that implements sequential, block-level operations. This abstraction
typically allows users to implement custom operations by composing those
block-level computations. Users of the ukernel API has full control of the
threading and blocking logic, so they can be tailored to their application.

Commit message:

doc: updates to atributes pages wrt host scale and zp

doc/programming_model/basic_concepts.md, after:

Basic Concepts {#dev_guide_basic_concepts}
==========================================

## Introduction

In this page, an outline of the oneDNN programming model is presented, and the
key concepts are discussed, including *Primitives*, *Engines*, *Streams*, and
*Memory Objects*. In essence, the oneDNN programming model consists in executing
one or several *primitives* to process data in one or several *memory objects*.
The execution is performed on an *engine* in the context of a *stream*. The
relationship between these entities is briefly presented in Figure 1, which also
includes additional concepts relevant to the oneDNN programming model, such as
primitive *attributes* and *descriptors*. These concepts are described below in
much more details.

@img{img_programming_model.png,Figure 1: Overview of oneDNN programming model. Blue rectangles denote oneDNN objects\, and red lines denote dependencies between objects.,60%,}

### Primitives

oneDNN is built around the notion of a *primitive* (@ref dnnl::primitive). A
*primitive* is an object that encapsulates a particular computation such as
forward convolution, backward LSTM computations, or a data transformation
operation. Additionally, using primitive *attributes* (@ref
dnnl::primitive_attr) certain primitives can represent more complex *fused*
computations such as a forward convolution followed by a ReLU.

The most important difference between a primitive and a pure function is that
a primitive can store state.

One part of the primitive’s state is immutable. For example, convolution
primitives store parameters like tensor shapes and can pre-compute other
dependent parameters like cache blocking. This approach allows oneDNN primitives
to pre-generate code specifically tailored for the operation to be performed.
The oneDNN programming model assumes that the time it takes to perform the
pre-computations is amortized by reusing the same primitive to perform
computations multiple times.

The mutable part of the primitive’s state is referred to as a scratchpad. It
is a memory buffer that a primitive may use for temporary storage only during
computations. The scratchpad can either be owned by a primitive object (which
makes that object non-thread safe) or be an execution-time parameter.

### Engines

*Engines* (@ref dnnl::engine) is an abstraction of a computational device: a
CPU, a specific GPU card in the system, etc. Most primitives are created to
execute computations on one specific engine. The only exceptions are reorder
primitives that transfer data between two different engines.

### Streams

*Streams* (@ref dnnl::stream) encapsulate execution context tied to a
particular engine. For example, they can correspond to OpenCL command queues.

### Memory Objects

*Memory objects* (@ref dnnl::memory) encapsulate handles to memory allocated
on a specific engine, tensor dimensions, data type, and memory format – the
way tensor indices map to offsets in linear memory space. Memory objects are
passed to primitives during execution.

@note
An exception is a memory object for host-side scalars that corresponds to
@ref dnnl::memory::format_kind::host_scalar. In this case, the memory descriptor
requires only a data type, and creating the memory object does not require
an engine. For details, see @ref dev_guide_host_side_scalars.

## Levels of Abstraction

Conceptually, oneDNN has multiple levels of abstractions for primitives and
memory objects in order to expose maximum flexibility to its users.

* Memory descriptors (@ref dnnl_memory_desc_t, @ref dnnl::memory::desc)
  define a tensor’s logical dimensions, data type, and the format in which the
  data is laid out in memory. The special format any
  (@ref dnnl::memory::format_tag::any) indicates that the actual format will be
  defined later (see @ref memory_format_propagation_cpp).

* Primitives descriptors fully define an operations's computation
  using the memory descriptors (@ref dnnl_memory_desc_t, @ref dnnl::memory::desc)
  passed at construction, as well as the attributes. They also dispatch specific
  implementation based on the engine. Primitive descriptors can be
  used to query various primitive implementation details and, for
  example, to implement @ref memory_format_propagation_cpp by inspecting
  expected memory formats via queries without having to fully instantiate
  a primitive. oneDNN may contain multiple implementations for the same
  primitive that can be used to perform the same particular computation.
  Primitive descriptors allow one-way iteration which allows inspecting multiple
  implementations. The library is expected to order the implementations from
  the most to least preferred, so it should always be safe to use the one that
  is chosen by default.

* Primitives, which are the most concrete, and embody the actual
  executable code that will be run to perform the primitive computation.

## Creating Memory Objects and Primitives

### Memory Objects

Memory objects are created from the memory descriptors. It is not possible to
create a memory object from a memory descriptor that has memory format set to
#dnnl::memory::format_tag::any.

There are two common ways for initializing memory descriptors:

* By using @ref dnnl::memory::desc constructors or by extracting a
  descriptor for a part of a tensor via
  @ref dnnl::memory::desc::submemory_desc

* By *querying* an existing primitive descriptor for a memory descriptor
  corresponding to one of the primitive's parameters (for example, @ref
  dnnl::convolution_forward::primitive_desc::src_desc).

Memory objects can be created with a user-provided handle (a `void *` on CPU),
or without one, in which case the library will allocate storage space on its
own.

### Primitives

The sequence of actions to create a primitive is:

1. Create a primitive descriptor via, for example, @ref
   dnnl::convolution_forward::primitive_desc. The primitive descriptor
   can contain memory descriptors with placeholder
   [format_tag::any](@ref dnnl::memory::format_tag::any)
   memory formats if the primitive supports it.

2. Create a primitive based on the primitive descriptor obtained in step 1.

## Graph Extension

Graph extension is a high level abstraction in oneDNN that allows you to work
with a computation graph instead of individual primitives. This approach allows
you to make an operation fusion:

* Transparent: the integration efforts are reduced by abstracting backend-aware
  fusion logic.

* Scalable: no integration code change is necessary to benefit from new fusion
  patterns enabled in oneDNN.

The programming model for the graph extension is detailed in the
[graph basic concepts section](@ref dev_guide_graph_basic_concepts).

## Micro-kernel Extension

The Micro-kernel API extension (ukernel API) is a low-level abstraction in
oneDNN that implements sequential, block-level operations. This abstraction
typically allows users to implement custom operations by composing those
block-level computations. Users of the ukernel API has full control of the
threading and blocking logic, so they can be tailored to their application.
