tests/benchdnn/doc/driver_binary.md, before:

# Binary Driver

## Usage
``` sh
    ./benchdnn --binary [benchdnn-knobs] [binary-knobs] [binary-desc] ...
```

where *binary-knobs* are:

 - `--sdt={f32:f32 [default], ...}` -- src data type.
            Refer to ``Inputs`` below.
            Refer to [data types](knobs_dt.md) for details.
 - `--ddt={f32 [default], ...}` -- dst data type.
            Refer to [data types](knobs_dt.md) for details.
 - `--stag={abx:any [default], ...}` -- physical src memory layout.
            Refer to ``Inputs`` below.
            Refer to [tags](knobs_tag.md) for details.
 - `--dtag={any [default], ...}` -- physical dst memory layout.
            Refer to [tags](knobs_tag.md) for details.
 - `--alg={ADD [default], DIV, EQ, GE, GT, LE, LT, MAX, MIN, MUL, NE, SELECT, SUB}`
            -- algorithm for binary operations.
            Refer to [binary primitive](https://uxlfoundation.github.io/oneDNN/dev_guide_binary.html)
            for details.
 - `--inplace=BOOL` -- memory mode for the primitive. If `true`, it uses input
            memory as output, otherwise, input and output are separate.
            Default is `false`.
 - `--match=REGEX` -- skip problems not matching the regular expression in
            `REGEX`. By default no pattern is applied (run everything).
            Note: Windows may interpret only string arguments surrounded by
            double quotation marks.
 - Any attributes options. Refer to [attributes](knobs_attr.md) for details.

and *binary-desc* is a problem descriptor. The canonical form is:
```
    NxNxNxNxN:NxNxNxNxN
```
where N is an integer number. This represents a 3D spatial problem with the
following logical dimensions: N, C, D, H, W. Consider removing each `xN` from
the end to specify fewer dimensions.


## Inputs
The input specification is similar to the concat driver except that binary
primitive accepts exactly two input shapes delimited by ':'.  The `--stag` and
`--sdt` options, if present, must have same number of arguments.

## Element broadcasting
Element broadcasting is supported for both tensors. Additionally, the second
tensor can have fewer dimensions than the first one. The trailing dimensions
are implicitly padded with dimensions of size 1. For example, for a 8x7x6:1x7
problem the 1x7 tensor dimensions are first padded to 1x7x1. Then, according
to the definition of the primitive, each element of the second tensor is
broadcast across the first and the last dimensions when applying a binary
operation.

## Essence of Testing
Input data is initialized with floating point values while ensuring that there
is no overflow in f16 or bf16 data types.

## Examples

Run the set of binary primitive problems from `inputs/binary/shapes_ci` with the
default settings:
``` sh
    ./benchdnn --binary --batch=inputs/binary/shapes_ci
```

Run a specific binary primitive problem:
- Data type is `f32` for source and destination tensors.
- Source tensors use `nhwc` memory format.
- The operation is out-of-place.
- The operation is element-wise multiplication.
- Second source is broadcast across 3 innermost dimensions of the first
  source.
``` sh
    ./benchdnn --binary --sdt=f32:f32 --ddt=f32 --stag=nhwc:nhwc \
               --alg=MUL --inplace=false 8x8x3x5:8
```

More examples with different driver options can be found at
inputs/binary/test_\*. Examples with different benchdnn common options can be
found at driver_conv.md.

Commit message:

tests: benchdnn: support binary with non-contiguous strides

tests/benchdnn/doc/driver_binary.md, after:

# Binary Driver

## Usage
``` sh
    ./benchdnn --binary [benchdnn-knobs] [binary-knobs] [binary-desc] ...
```

where *binary-knobs* are:

 - `--sdt={f32:f32 [default], ...}` -- src data type.
            Refer to ``Inputs`` below.
            Refer to [data types](knobs_dt.md) for details.
 - `--ddt={f32 [default], ...}` -- dst data type.
            Refer to [data types](knobs_dt.md) for details.
 - `--stag={abx:any [default], ...}` -- physical src memory layout.
            Refer to ``Inputs`` below.
            Refer to [tags](knobs_tag.md) for details.
 - `--dtag={any [default], ...}` -- physical dst memory layout.
            Refer to [tags](knobs_tag.md) for details.
 - `--strides=SRC_STRIDES:SRC_STRIDES:DST_STRIDES` -- physical memory layout
            specification for two `src` and `dst` tensors through
            strides values. Refer to [option documentation](knob_strides.md)
            for details.
 - `--alg={ADD [default], DIV, EQ, GE, GT, LE, LT, MAX, MIN, MUL, NE, SELECT, SUB}`
            -- algorithm for binary operations.
            Refer to [binary primitive](https://uxlfoundation.github.io/oneDNN/dev_guide_binary.html)
            for details.
 - `--inplace=BOOL` -- memory mode for the primitive. If `true`, it uses input
            memory as output, otherwise, input and output are separate.
            Default is `false`.
 - `--match=REGEX` -- skip problems not matching the regular expression in
            `REGEX`. By default no pattern is applied (run everything).
            Note: Windows may interpret only string arguments surrounded by
            double quotation marks.
 - Any attributes options. Refer to [attributes](knobs_attr.md) for details.

and *binary-desc* is a problem descriptor. The canonical form is:
```
    NxNxNxNxN:NxNxNxNxN
```
where N is an integer number. This represents a 3D spatial problem with the
following logical dimensions: N, C, D, H, W. Consider removing each `xN` from
the end to specify fewer dimensions.


## Inputs
The input specification is similar to the concat driver except that binary
primitive accepts exactly two input shapes delimited by ':'.  The `--stag` and
`--sdt` options, if present, must have same number of arguments.

## Element broadcasting
Element broadcasting is supported for both tensors. Additionally, the second
tensor can have fewer dimensions than the first one. The trailing dimensions
are implicitly padded with dimensions of size 1. For example, for a 8x7x6:1x7
problem the 1x7 tensor dimensions are first padded to 1x7x1. Then, according
to the definition of the primitive, each element of the second tensor is
broadcast across the first and the last dimensions when applying a binary
operation.

## Essence of Testing
Input data is initialized with floating point values while ensuring that there
is no overflow in f16 or bf16 data types.

## Examples

Run the set of binary primitive problems from `inputs/binary/shapes_ci` with the
default settings:
``` sh
    ./benchdnn --binary --batch=inputs/binary/shapes_ci
```

Run a specific binary primitive problem:
- Data type is `f32` for source and destination tensors.
- Source tensors use `nhwc` memory format.
- The operation is out-of-place.
- The operation is element-wise multiplication.
- Second source is broadcast across 3 innermost dimensions of the first
  source.
``` sh
    ./benchdnn --binary --sdt=f32:f32 --ddt=f32 --stag=nhwc:nhwc \
               --alg=MUL --inplace=false 8x8x3x5:8
```

More examples with different driver options can be found at
inputs/binary/test_\*. Examples with different benchdnn common options can be
found at driver_conv.md.
