tests/benchdnn/doc/knobs_attr.md, before:

# Attributes

## Usage
```
    --attr-scratchpad=MODE
    --attr-fpmath=MATHMODE[:APPLY_TO_INT]
    --attr-acc-mode=ACCMODE
    --attr-rounding-mode=ARG:MODE[+...]
    --attr-deterministic=BOOL
    --attr-dropout=PROBABILITY[:SEED[:TAG]]
    --attr-scales=ARG:POLICY[:SCALE[:DATA_TYPE[:GROUPS]]][+...]
    --attr-zero-points=ARG:POLICY[:ZEROPOINT[:DATA_TYPE[:GROUPS]]][+...]
    --attr-post-ops=SUM[:SCALE[:ZERO_POINT[:DATA_TYPE]]]
                    ELTWISE[:ALPHA[:BETA[:SCALE]]]
                    DW:KkSsPp[:DST_DT]
                    BINARY:DT[:MASK_INPUT[:TAG]]
                    PRELU[:POLICY]
```

## --attr-scratchpad
`--attr-scratchpad` specifies the scratchpad mode to be used for benchmarking.
`MODE` values can be `library` (the default) or `user`. Refer to
[scratchpad primitive attribute](https://uxlfoundation.github.io/oneDNN/dev_guide_attributes_scratchpad.html)
for details.

## --attr-fpmath
`--attr-fpmath` specifies the fpmath mode to be used for benchmarking.
`MATHMODE` values can be any of `strict` (the default), `bf16`, `f16`, `tf32`,
or `any`.
`APPLY_TO_INT` values can be either `true` (the default) or `false`.
Refer to
[fpmath primitive attribute](https://uxlfoundation.github.io/oneDNN/dev_guide_attributes_fpmath_mode.html)
for details.


## --attr-acc-mode
`--attr-acc-mode` specifies the accumulation mode to be used for benchmarking.
`ACCMODE` values can be any of `strict` (the default), `relaxed`, `any`, `f32`,
`s32` or `f16`. Refer to
[accumulation mode primitive attribute](https://uxlfoundation.github.io/oneDNN/dev_guide_attributes_accumulation_mode.html)
for details.

## --attr-rounding-mode
`--attr-rounding-mode` specifies the rounding mode to be used for benchmarking.
`ARG` specifies which memory argument will be modified. Supported values are:
  - `dst` corresponds to `DNNL_ARG_DST`.
  - `diff_src` corresponds to `DNNL_ARG_DIFF_SRC`.
  - `diff_weights` corresponds to `DNNL_ARG_DIFF_WEIGHTS`.
`MODE` specifies which mode to apply to the corresponding memory
argument. Supported values are: `environment` (default) and `stochastic`.  Refer
to [rounding mode primitive attribute](https://uxlfoundation.github.io/oneDNN/dev_guide_attributes_rounding_mode.html)
for details.

## --attr-deterministic
`--attr-deterministic` specifies the deterministic mode to be used for
benchmarking. `BOOL` values can be `true`, which enables the deterministic
mode and `false` (the default), which disables it. Refer to
[deterministic primitive attribute](https://uxlfoundation.github.io/oneDNN/dev_guide_attributes_deterministic.html)
for details.

## --attr-dropout
`--attr-dropout` defines the dropout attribute; right before the post-ops get
applied, dropout fills a part of the output buffer with zeroes at random offsets
(using a version of Philox as PRNG) and divides what's left by (1 - p), where p
means probability, see below.
`PROBABILITY` is a floating-point value between `0` and `1` that specifies how
likely it is for any given output value to be zeroed (i.e. 'dropped out'): when
`0` is specified the output buffer is to remain intact, when `1` is specified
all output values are to be dropped out.
`SEED` is the 32-bit integer seed of the RNG (a modified Philox algorithm
adapted for GPUs), 0 by default.
`TAG` specifies the memory format of the output buffer where the dropout mask
will be stored. `TAG` values use the same notation as in drivers. The default
value of `TAG` is `any`. Refer to [tags](knobs_tag.md) for details.

## --attr-scales
`--attr-scales` defines per memory argument primitive scales attribute.
`ARG` specifies which memory argument will be modified. Supported values are:
  - `src` or `src0` corresponds to `DNNL_ARG_SRC`.
  - `src1` corresponds to `DNNL_ARG_SRC_1`.
  - `wei` corresponds to `DNNL_ARG_WEIGHTS`.
  - `dst` corresponds to `DNNL_ARG_DST`.
  - `msrci` corresponds to `DNNL_ARG_MULTIPLE_SRC + i`.

`POLICY` specifies the way scale values will be applied to an `ARG` tensor. By
default no scales are applied which corresponds to `common` policy and `1.f`
scale value. Supported values are:
  - `common`         corresponds to `mask = 0` and means a whole tensor will be
                     multiplied by a single `SCALE` value.
  - `host_scalar`    for this policy, the whole tensor will be multiplied by a
                     single `SCALE` value that is always stored on the host.
  - `per_dim_0`      corresponds to `mask = 1 << 0` and means elements of dim0
                     will be multiplied by scale factors different for each
                     point. Number of scale factors is equal to dims[0].
  - `per_dim_1`      corresponds to `mask = 1 << 1` and means elements of dim1
                     will be multiplied by scale factors different for each
                     point. Number of scale factors is equal to dims[1].
  - `per_dim_01`     corresponds to `mask = (1 << 0) + (1 << 1)` and means
                     elements of dim0 and dim1 will be multiplied by scale
                     factors different for a pair of {dim0, dim1} points.
                     Number of scale factors is equal to dims[0] * dims[1].
  - `per_oc`         same as `per_dim_0` for non-grouped case of `WEI` argument,
                     same as `per_dim_01` for grouped case of `WEI` argument,
                     same as `per_dim_1` for arguments other than `WEI`.
  - `per_ocic`       same as `per_dim_01` for non-grouped case of `WEI` argument
                     or for non-batched Matmul case of `WEI` argument,
                     corresponds to `mask = (1 << 1) + (1 << 2)` for grouped case
                     of `WEI` argument.
                     corresponds to `mask = (1 << batch_ndims) + (1 << batch_ndims + 1)`
                     for batched Matmul case of `WEI` argument.
  - `per_dim_2`      corresponds to `mask = 1 << 2` and means elements of dim3
                     will be multiplied by scale factors different for each
                     point. Number of scale factors is equal to dims[2].
                     Currently supported only in matmul primitive for 3D tensors.
  - `per_dim_3`      corresponds to `mask = 1 << 3` and means elements of dim3
                     will be multiplied by scale factors different for each
                     point. Number of scale factors is equal to dims[3].
                     Currently supported only in matmul primitive for 4D tensors.
  - `per_tensor`     means each element of original tensor will be multiplied
                     by a unique number. Number of scale factor is equal to
                     `nelems`. As of now supported only by binary post-ops.

`SCALE` is required for the `common` policy only, and specifies a floating-point
value which is passed for execution at runtime. Specifying a value for any other
policies will trigger an error.

`DATA_TYPE` specifies data type for scale factors. Supported values are
`f32` (the default), `f16`, `bf16`.

`GROUPS` specifies how scales are grouped along dimensions where multiple scale
factors are used.

To specify more than one memory argument for this attribute, `+` delimiter is
used.

## --attr-zero-points
`--attr-zero-points` defines zero points per memory argument primitive
attribute. This attribute is supported only for integer data types as of now.

`ARG` specifies which memory argument will be modified. Supported values are:
  - `src` corresponds to `DNNL_ARG_SRC`
  - `wei` corresponds to `DNNL_ARG_WEIGHTS`
  - `dst` corresponds to `DNNL_ARG_DST`

`POLICY` has the same semantics and meaning as for `--attr-scales`. Supported
values are:
  - `common`
  - `host_scalar`
  - `per_dim_1` (for `src` and `dst`)

`ZEROPOINT` is required for the `common` policy only, an specifies an integer
value which is passed for execution at runtime. Specifying a value for any other
policies will trigger an error.

`DATA_TYPE` specifies data type for zero points. Supported values are
`s32` (the default), `s8`, `u8`, `s4`, `u4`.

`GROUPS` specifies how zero points are grouped along dimensions where multiple
zero points factors are used.

To specify more than one memory argument for this attribute, `+` delimiter is
used.

## --attr-post-ops
`--attr-post-ops` defines post operations primitive attribute. Depending on
post operations kind, the syntax differs. To specify more than one post
operation, plus delimiter `+` is used.

Operations may be called in any order, e.g. apply `SUM` at first and then apply
`ELTWISE`, or vice versa - apply `ELTWISE` and then `SUM` it with destination.

### Sum
`SUM` post operation kind appends operation result to the output. It supports
optional arguments `SCALE` parsed as a real number, which scales the output
before appending the result, `ZERO_POINT` parsed as a integer, which shifts the
output before using the scale and `DATA_TYPE` argument which defines sum data
type parameter. If invalid or `undef` value of `DATA_TYPE` is specified, an
error will be returned.

### Eltwise
`ELTWISE` post operation kind applies one of supported element-wise algorithms
to the operation result and then stores it. It supports optional arguments
`ALPHA` and `BETA` parsed as real numbers. To specify `BETA`, `ALPHA` must be
specified. `SCALE` has same notation and semantics as for `SUM` kind, but
requires both `ALPHA` and `BETA` to be specified. `SCALE` is applicable only
when output tensor has integer data type.

`ELTWISE` supported values are:
- Eltwise operations that support no alpha or beta:
  - `abs`
  - `exp`
  - `exp_dst`
  - `gelu_erf`
  - `gelu_tanh`
  - `log`
  - `logistic`
  - `logistic_dst`
  - `mish`
  - `round`
  - `sqrt`
  - `sqrt_dst`
  - `square`
  - `tanh`
  - `tanh_dst`
- Eltwise operations that support only alpha:
  - `elu`
  - `elu_dst`
  - `relu`
  - `relu_dst`
  - `soft_relu`
  - `swish`
- Eltwise operations that support both alpha and beta:
  - `clip`
  - `clip_v2`
  - `clip_v2_dst`
  - `hardsigmoid`
  - `hardswish`
  - `linear`
  - `pow`

### Depthwise convolution
`DW:KkSsPp` post operation kind appends depthwise convolution with kernel size
of `k`, stride size of `s`, and left padding size of `p`.
These kinds are only applicable for 1x1 2D-spatial main convolution operation.
They support optional argument `DST_DT`, which defines destination
tensor data type. Refer to [data types](knobs_dt.md) for details.

### Binary
`BINARY` post operation kind applies one of supported binary algorithms to the
operation result and then stores it. It requires mandatory argument of `DT`
specifying data type of second memory operand. It supports optional argument of
`MASK_INPUT` giving a hint what are the dimensions for a second memory operand.
`MASK_INPUT` may be provided in two ways:
* As plain integer value which will be process directly.
* As a `POLICY` value (see above).
In case `MASK_INPUT` value affects more than one dimension (e.g. `per_tensor`
`POLICY` input or integer `15` input), additional optional argument `TAG` is
supported, positioned after `MASK_INPUT`, to specify physical memory format.
`TAG` values use same notation as in drivers. The default value of `TAG` is
`any`. Refer to [tags](knobs_tag.md) for details.

`BINARY` supported values are:
- `add`
- `div`
- `eq`
- `ge`
- `gt`
- `le`
- `lt`
- `max`
- `min`
- `mul`
- `ne`
- `sub`
- `select`

For the `select` algorithm, the operation also requires a third conditional
tensor to be specified. A different format is thus used for providing the
arguments for both the tensors:

```
--attr-post-ops=select:DT[.S1_MASK_INPUT[.S1_TAG]][:S2_MASK_INPUT[.S2_TAG]]
```

The arguments for each tensor are are delimited using `.`, with the arguments
for the third tensor positioned after that of the second and are separated by `:`.
The arguments are optional for the third tensor and the data type value for
the third tensor is fixed at `s8`.

### Prelu
`PRELU` post operation kind applies forward algorithm to the operations result
and then stores it. Weights `DT` is always implicitly f32. It supports an
optional argument of `POLICY` specifying the broadcast policy.

## Examples:

Run a set of f32 forward convolutions without bias appending accumulation into
destination and perform relu on the output with scale set to 0.5:
``` sh
    ./benchdnn --conv --cfg=f32 --dir=FWD_D \
               --attr-post-ops=sum+relu:0.5 --batch=shapes_tails
```

Run a 1D-spatial reorder problem with s8 input data and u8 output data in four
different physical memory layout combinations {ncw, ncw}, {ncw, nwc},
{nwc, ncw} and {nwc, nwc} applying source scale 2.5 for each source point:
``` sh
    ./benchdnn --reorder --sdt=s8 --ddt=u8 \
               --stag=ncw,nwc --dtag=ncw,nwc \
               --attr-scales=src:common:2.5 2x8x8
```

Run a binary problem with s8 input data and u8 output data in nc layout
applying scales to both inputs without any post operations:
``` sh
    ./benchdnn --binary --sdt=u8:s8 --ddt=u8 --stag=nc:nc \
               --attr-scales=src:common:1.5+src1:common:2.5 \
               100x100:100x100
```

Run a 1x1 convolution fused with depthwise convolution where destination scales
are set to 0.5 for 1x1 convolution and 1.5 for depthwise post-op followed by a
relu post-op. The final dst datatype after the fusion in the example below is
`s8`. The weights datatype is inferred as `s8`, `f32` and `bf16` for int8, f32
and bf16 convolutions respectively.
``` sh
  ./benchdnn --conv --cfg=u8s8u8 --attr-scales=dst:per_oc \
             --attr-post-ops=relu+dw_k3s1p1:s8+relu \
             ic16oc16ih4oh4kh1ph0
```

Run a convolution problem with binary post operation, first one adds single int
value to the destination memory, second one adds a tensor of same size with
`nhwc`-like physical memory layout with float values to the destination memory:
``` sh
  ./benchdnn --conv --attr-post-ops=add:s32:common,add:f32:per_tensor:axb \
             ic16oc16ih4oh4kh1ph0
```

Run a matmul problem with weights decompression where weights `bf16` scales and
`s8` zero points have scales along `ic` and `oc` dimensions, have groups along
`ic` dimension:
``` sh
  ./benchdnn --matmul --dt=f32:s8:f32 --attr-fpmath=bf16:true \
             --attr-scales=wei:per_ocic:bf16:2x1 \
             --attr-zero-points=wei:per_ocic:s8:2x1 6x4:4x5
```

Commit message:

api: introduce precomputed reductions primitive attribute

tests/benchdnn/doc/knobs_attr.md, after:

# Attributes

## Usage
```
    --attr-scratchpad=MODE
    --attr-fpmath=MATHMODE[:APPLY_TO_INT]
    --attr-acc-mode=ACCMODE
    --attr-rounding-mode=ARG:MODE[+...]
    --attr-deterministic=BOOL
    --attr-dropout=PROBABILITY[:SEED[:TAG]]
    --attr-scales=ARG:POLICY[:SCALE][:DATA_TYPE[:GROUPS]][+...]
    --attr-zero-points=ARG:POLICY[:ZEROPOINT][:DATA_TYPE[:GROUPS]][+...]
    --attr-precomputed-reductions=ARG:POLICY:DATA_TYPE:GROUPS[+...]
    --attr-post-ops=SUM[:SCALE[:ZERO_POINT[:DATA_TYPE]]]
                    ELTWISE[:ALPHA[:BETA[:SCALE]]]
                    DW:KkSsPp[:DST_DT]
                    BINARY:DT[:MASK_INPUT[:TAG]]
                    PRELU[:POLICY]
```

## --attr-scratchpad
`--attr-scratchpad` specifies the scratchpad mode to be used for benchmarking.
`MODE` values can be `library` (the default) or `user`. Refer to
[scratchpad primitive attribute](https://uxlfoundation.github.io/oneDNN/dev_guide_attributes_scratchpad.html)
for details.

## --attr-fpmath
`--attr-fpmath` specifies the fpmath mode to be used for benchmarking.
`MATHMODE` values can be any of `strict` (the default), `bf16`, `f16`, `tf32`,
or `any`.
`APPLY_TO_INT` values can be either `true` (the default) or `false`.
Refer to
[fpmath primitive attribute](https://uxlfoundation.github.io/oneDNN/dev_guide_attributes_fpmath_mode.html)
for details.


## --attr-acc-mode
`--attr-acc-mode` specifies the accumulation mode to be used for benchmarking.
`ACCMODE` values can be any of `strict` (the default), `relaxed`, `any`, `f32`,
`s32` or `f16`. Refer to
[accumulation mode primitive attribute](https://uxlfoundation.github.io/oneDNN/dev_guide_attributes_accumulation_mode.html)
for details.

## --attr-rounding-mode
`--attr-rounding-mode` specifies the rounding mode to be used for benchmarking.
`ARG` specifies which memory argument will be modified. Supported values are:
  - `dst` corresponds to `DNNL_ARG_DST`.
  - `diff_src` corresponds to `DNNL_ARG_DIFF_SRC`.
  - `diff_weights` corresponds to `DNNL_ARG_DIFF_WEIGHTS`.
`MODE` specifies which mode to apply to the corresponding memory
argument. Supported values are: `environment` (default) and `stochastic`.  Refer
to [rounding mode primitive attribute](https://uxlfoundation.github.io/oneDNN/dev_guide_attributes_rounding_mode.html)
for details.

## --attr-deterministic
`--attr-deterministic` specifies the deterministic mode to be used for
benchmarking. `BOOL` values can be `true`, which enables the deterministic
mode and `false` (the default), which disables it. Refer to
[deterministic primitive attribute](https://uxlfoundation.github.io/oneDNN/dev_guide_attributes_deterministic.html)
for details.

## --attr-dropout
`--attr-dropout` defines the dropout attribute; right before the post-ops get
applied, dropout fills a part of the output buffer with zeroes at random offsets
(using a version of Philox as PRNG) and divides what's left by (1 - p), where p
means probability, see below.
`PROBABILITY` is a floating-point value between `0` and `1` that specifies how
likely it is for any given output value to be zeroed (i.e. 'dropped out'): when
`0` is specified the output buffer is to remain intact, when `1` is specified
all output values are to be dropped out.
`SEED` is the 32-bit integer seed of the RNG (a modified Philox algorithm
adapted for GPUs), 0 by default.
`TAG` specifies the memory format of the output buffer where the dropout mask
will be stored. `TAG` values use the same notation as in drivers. The default
value of `TAG` is `any`. Refer to [tags](knobs_tag.md) for details.

## --attr-scales
`--attr-scales` defines per memory argument primitive scales attribute.
`ARG` specifies which memory argument will be modified. Supported values are:
  - `src` or `src0` corresponds to `DNNL_ARG_SRC`.
  - `src1` corresponds to `DNNL_ARG_SRC_1`.
  - `wei` corresponds to `DNNL_ARG_WEIGHTS`.
  - `dst` corresponds to `DNNL_ARG_DST`.
  - `msrci` corresponds to `DNNL_ARG_MULTIPLE_SRC + i`.

`POLICY` specifies the way scale values will be applied to an `ARG` tensor. By
default no scales are applied which corresponds to `common` policy and `1.f`
scale value. Supported values are:
  - `common`         corresponds to `mask = 0` and means a whole tensor will be
                     multiplied by a single `SCALE` value.
  - `host_scalar`    for this policy, the whole tensor will be multiplied by a
                     single `SCALE` value that is always stored on the host.
  - `per_dim_0`      corresponds to `mask = 1 << 0` and means elements of dim0
                     will be multiplied by scale factors different for each
                     point. Number of scale factors is equal to dims[0].
  - `per_dim_1`      corresponds to `mask = 1 << 1` and means elements of dim1
                     will be multiplied by scale factors different for each
                     point. Number of scale factors is equal to dims[1].
  - `per_dim_01`     corresponds to `mask = (1 << 0) + (1 << 1)` and means
                     elements of dim0 and dim1 will be multiplied by scale
                     factors different for a pair of {dim0, dim1} points.
                     Number of scale factors is equal to dims[0] * dims[1].
  - `per_oc`         same as `per_dim_0` for non-grouped case of `WEI` argument,
                     same as `per_dim_01` for grouped case of `WEI` argument,
                     same as `per_dim_1` for arguments other than `WEI`.
  - `per_ocic`       same as `per_dim_01` for non-grouped case of `WEI` argument
                     or for non-batched Matmul case of `WEI` argument,
                     corresponds to `mask = (1 << 1) + (1 << 2)` for grouped case
                     of `WEI` argument.
                     corresponds to `mask = (1 << batch_ndims) + (1 << batch_ndims + 1)`
                     for batched Matmul case of `WEI` argument.
  - `per_dim_2`      corresponds to `mask = 1 << 2` and means elements of dim3
                     will be multiplied by scale factors different for each
                     point. Number of scale factors is equal to dims[2].
                     Currently supported only in matmul primitive for 3D tensors.
  - `per_dim_3`      corresponds to `mask = 1 << 3` and means elements of dim3
                     will be multiplied by scale factors different for each
                     point. Number of scale factors is equal to dims[3].
                     Currently supported only in matmul primitive for 4D tensors.
  - `per_tensor`     means each element of original tensor will be multiplied
                     by a unique number. Number of scale factor is equal to
                     `nelems`. As of now supported only by binary post-ops.

`SCALE` is required for the `common` policy only, and specifies a floating-point
value which is passed for execution at runtime. Specifying a value for any other
policies will trigger an error.

`DATA_TYPE` specifies data type for scale factors. Supported values are
`f32` (the default), `f16`, `bf16`.

`GROUPS` specifies how scales are grouped along dimensions where multiple scale
factors are used.

To specify more than one memory argument for this attribute, `+` delimiter is
used.

## --attr-zero-points
`--attr-zero-points` defines zero points per memory argument primitive
attribute. This attribute is supported only for integer data types as of now.

`ARG` specifies which memory argument will be modified. Supported values are:
  - `src` corresponds to `DNNL_ARG_SRC`
  - `wei` corresponds to `DNNL_ARG_WEIGHTS`
  - `dst` corresponds to `DNNL_ARG_DST`

`POLICY` has the same semantics and meaning as for `--attr-scales`. Supported
values are:
  - `common`
  - `host_scalar`
  - `per_dim_1` (for `src` and `dst`)

`ZEROPOINT` is required for the `common` policy only, an specifies an integer
value which is passed for execution at runtime. Specifying a value for any other
policies will trigger an error.

`DATA_TYPE` specifies data type for zero points. Supported values are
`s32` (the default), `s8`, `u8`, `s4`, `u4`.

`GROUPS` specifies how zero points are grouped along dimensions where multiple
zero points factors are used.

To specify more than one memory argument for this attribute, `+` delimiter is
used.

## --attr-precomputed-reductions
`--attr-precomputed-reductions` defines precomputed reductions per memory
argument primitive attribute. This attribute is supported only for integer data
types as of now.

`ARG` specifies which memory argument will be modified. Supported values are:
  - `src` corresponds to `DNNL_ARG_SRC`
  - `wei` corresponds to `DNNL_ARG_WEIGHTS`

`POLICY` has the same semantics and meaning as for `--attr-scales`. Supported
values are:
  - `per_tensor`

`DATA_TYPE` specifies data type for precomputed reductions. Supported values are
`s32` (the default), `s8`, `u8`.

`GROUPS` specifies how precomputed reductions are grouped along dimensions where
multiple precomputed reduction factors are used.

To specify more than one memory argument for this attribute, `+` delimiter is
used.

## --attr-post-ops
`--attr-post-ops` defines post operations primitive attribute. Depending on
post operations kind, the syntax differs. To specify more than one post
operation, plus delimiter `+` is used.

Operations may be called in any order, e.g. apply `SUM` at first and then apply
`ELTWISE`, or vice versa - apply `ELTWISE` and then `SUM` it with destination.

### Sum
`SUM` post operation kind appends operation result to the output. It supports
optional arguments `SCALE` parsed as a real number, which scales the output
before appending the result, `ZERO_POINT` parsed as a integer, which shifts the
output before using the scale and `DATA_TYPE` argument which defines sum data
type parameter. If invalid or `undef` value of `DATA_TYPE` is specified, an
error will be returned.

### Eltwise
`ELTWISE` post operation kind applies one of supported element-wise algorithms
to the operation result and then stores it. It supports optional arguments
`ALPHA` and `BETA` parsed as real numbers. To specify `BETA`, `ALPHA` must be
specified. `SCALE` has same notation and semantics as for `SUM` kind, but
requires both `ALPHA` and `BETA` to be specified. `SCALE` is applicable only
when output tensor has integer data type.

`ELTWISE` supported values are:
- Eltwise operations that support no alpha or beta:
  - `abs`
  - `exp`
  - `exp_dst`
  - `gelu_erf`
  - `gelu_tanh`
  - `log`
  - `logistic`
  - `logistic_dst`
  - `mish`
  - `round`
  - `sqrt`
  - `sqrt_dst`
  - `square`
  - `tanh`
  - `tanh_dst`
- Eltwise operations that support only alpha:
  - `elu`
  - `elu_dst`
  - `relu`
  - `relu_dst`
  - `soft_relu`
  - `swish`
- Eltwise operations that support both alpha and beta:
  - `clip`
  - `clip_v2`
  - `clip_v2_dst`
  - `hardsigmoid`
  - `hardswish`
  - `linear`
  - `pow`

### Depthwise convolution
`DW:KkSsPp` post operation kind appends depthwise convolution with kernel size
of `k`, stride size of `s`, and left padding size of `p`.
These kinds are only applicable for 1x1 2D-spatial main convolution operation.
They support optional argument `DST_DT`, which defines destination
tensor data type. Refer to [data types](knobs_dt.md) for details.

### Binary
`BINARY` post operation kind applies one of supported binary algorithms to the
operation result and then stores it. It requires mandatory argument of `DT`
specifying data type of second memory operand. It supports optional argument of
`MASK_INPUT` giving a hint what are the dimensions for a second memory operand.
`MASK_INPUT` may be provided in two ways:
* As plain integer value which will be process directly.
* As a `POLICY` value (see above).
In case `MASK_INPUT` value affects more than one dimension (e.g. `per_tensor`
`POLICY` input or integer `15` input), additional optional argument `TAG` is
supported, positioned after `MASK_INPUT`, to specify physical memory format.
`TAG` values use same notation as in drivers. The default value of `TAG` is
`any`. Refer to [tags](knobs_tag.md) for details.

`BINARY` supported values are:
- `add`
- `div`
- `eq`
- `ge`
- `gt`
- `le`
- `lt`
- `max`
- `min`
- `mul`
- `ne`
- `sub`
- `select`

For the `select` algorithm, the operation also requires a third conditional
tensor to be specified. A different format is thus used for providing the
arguments for both the tensors:

```
--attr-post-ops=select:DT[.S1_MASK_INPUT[.S1_TAG]][:S2_MASK_INPUT[.S2_TAG]]
```

The arguments for each tensor are are delimited using `.`, with the arguments
for the third tensor positioned after that of the second and are separated by `:`.
The arguments are optional for the third tensor and the data type value for
the third tensor is fixed at `s8`.

### Prelu
`PRELU` post operation kind applies forward algorithm to the operations result
and then stores it. Weights `DT` is always implicitly f32. It supports an
optional argument of `POLICY` specifying the broadcast policy.

## Examples:

Run a set of f32 forward convolutions without bias appending accumulation into
destination and perform relu on the output with scale set to 0.5:
``` sh
    ./benchdnn --conv --cfg=f32 --dir=FWD_D \
               --attr-post-ops=sum+relu:0.5 --batch=shapes_tails
```

Run a 1D-spatial reorder problem with s8 input data and u8 output data in four
different physical memory layout combinations {ncw, ncw}, {ncw, nwc},
{nwc, ncw} and {nwc, nwc} applying source scale 2.5 for each source point:
``` sh
    ./benchdnn --reorder --sdt=s8 --ddt=u8 \
               --stag=ncw,nwc --dtag=ncw,nwc \
               --attr-scales=src:common:2.5 2x8x8
```

Run a binary problem with s8 input data and u8 output data in nc layout
applying scales to both inputs without any post operations:
``` sh
    ./benchdnn --binary --sdt=u8:s8 --ddt=u8 --stag=nc:nc \
               --attr-scales=src:common:1.5+src1:common:2.5 \
               100x100:100x100
```

Run a 1x1 convolution fused with depthwise convolution where destination scales
are set to 0.5 for 1x1 convolution and 1.5 for depthwise post-op followed by a
relu post-op. The final dst datatype after the fusion in the example below is
`s8`. The weights datatype is inferred as `s8`, `f32` and `bf16` for int8, f32
and bf16 convolutions respectively.
``` sh
  ./benchdnn --conv --cfg=u8s8u8 --attr-scales=dst:per_oc \
             --attr-post-ops=relu+dw_k3s1p1:s8+relu \
             ic16oc16ih4oh4kh1ph0
```

Run a convolution problem with binary post operation, first one adds single int
value to the destination memory, second one adds a tensor of same size with
`nhwc`-like physical memory layout with float values to the destination memory:
``` sh
  ./benchdnn --conv --attr-post-ops=add:s32:common,add:f32:per_tensor:axb \
             ic16oc16ih4oh4kh1ph0
```

Run a matmul problem with weights decompression where weights `bf16` scales and
`s8` zero points have scales along `ic` and `oc` dimensions, have groups along
`ic` dimension:
``` sh
  ./benchdnn --matmul --dt=f32:s8:f32 --attr-fpmath=bf16:true \
             --attr-scales=wei:per_ocic:bf16:2x1 \
             --attr-zero-points=wei:per_ocic:s8:2x1 6x4:4x5
```
