doc/graph/fusion_patterns/gqa.md, before:

Grouped Query Attention (GQA) {#dev_guide_graph_gqa}
====================================================

## Overview

In a typical Scaled Dot-Product Attention (SDPA) [1], the input Query, Key, and
Value tensors have the same head number. It becomes a performance bottleneck to
load the Key and Value tensors in each generation step, especially when the
sentence length gets longer.

To reduce the memory bandwidth overhead of loading the Key and Value tensors,
Multi-Query Attention (MQA) [2] is created by reducing the head number of Key
and Value tensors to one which means multiple Queries will map to the same
single Key and Value tensor. However, MQA may lead to model quality degradation
and training instability. Therefore, Grouped-Query Attention (GQA) [3], an
interpolation between the typical SDPA and MQA, is proposed with single Key and
Value head per a subgroup of Query heads. The head number of Key and Value
equals to the group number of Query heads.

The notations used in the document:

- N: the mini-batch size.
- H_q: the head number of Query.
- H_kv: the head number of Key or Value.
- N_rep: H_q / H_kv, indicates how many Query heads are mapped to one Key head.
- S: the sequence length.
- D: the size of each head.

## GQA Pattern

Similar to how SDPA is supported, the GQA pattern is also defined as a
directional acyclic graph (DAG) using oneDNN Graph API.

### GQA for Inference

oneDNN extends the
[SDPA pattern](@ref dev_guide_graph_sdpa) to support two types of floating-point
(f32, bf16, and f16) GQA patterns. The blue nodes are required when defining a
GQA pattern while the brown nodes are optional. The key difference between the
two types of GQA patterns lies in whether the input and output tensors have 4D
or 5D shapes. The optional StaticReshape operations are used to convert the tensors
between 4D and 5D shape formats, depending on whether the input and output tensors
are in 4D shapes.

![GQA pattern](images/gqa.png)


#### GQA Inference Pattern with 4D input and output

Due to the broadcasting semantics of MatMul, implementing GQA often requires
additional tensor manipulation. Specifically, when working with 4D input tensors,
where Query has shape (N, H_q, S, D) and Key/Value has shape (N, H_kv, S, D),
it is necessary to introduce extra StaticReshape operations to align tensor
dimensions for the MatMul operations. Therefore, the 4D GQA pattern involves the
following differences:

1. The input Query has shape (N, H_q, S, D). It will be reshaped to (N, H_kv,
   N_rep, S, D) by splitting H_q dimension into H_kv and N_rep. The reshaping
   can be constructed using the [StaticReshape](@ref dev_guide_op_staticreshape)
   operation in Graph API.
2. Similarly, the input Key and Value have shape (N, H_kv, S, D). They will be
   reshaped to (N, H_kv, 1, S, D) to meet the input shape requirement of
   [MatMul](@ref dev_guide_op_matmul) operation.
3. The second MatMul calculates the dot products between the probabilities after
   SoftMax and Value nodes and generates output with shape (N, H_kv, N_rep, S, D).
4. Another StaticReshape operation is applied to the output of the second MatMul
   to convert the shape into (N, H_q, S, D) by combining H_kv and N_rep
   dimensions.
5. The input scale factor and mask in the pattern also need to meet the
   operations' shape requirement which can be achieved through StaticReshape
   similarly. Besides that, they have the same definition as described in the
   typical SDPA pattern.

#### GQA Inference Pattern with 5D input and output

To simplify the process and avoid unnecessary reshaping, the native 5D GQA
pattern supported by oneDNN can be used. In this approach, the input Query, Key,
and Value tensors are provided in a grouped format.

1. The input Query has a 5D shape: (N, H_kv, N_rep, S, D)
2. The input Key/Value has a 5D shape: (N, H_kv, 1, S, D)
3. The second MatMul calculates the dot products between the probabilities after
   SoftMax and Value nodes and generates output with shape (N, H_kv, N_rep, S, D).
4. The input scale factor and mask in the pattern must meet the operations'
   shape requirement.

### GQA for Training Forward Propagation

oneDNN defines floating-point (f32, bf16, or f16) GQA for training forward
propagation as follows. The blue nodes are required while the brown nodes are optional.

![GQA forward pattern](images/gqa_forward.png)

The training forward pattern only supports 5D input and output tensors. The key
difference between the inference pattern with 5D input/output and the training
forward propagation pattern is that, for training forward propagation, the
`Stats` output of the SoftMax operation is needed. See
[SoftMax](@ref dev_guide_op_softmax) in Graph API for more details.

### GQA for Training Backpropagation

oneDNN defines floating-point (f32, bf16, or f16) GQA for training
backpropagation as follows, it currently supports 5D input and output tensors.
The blue nodes are required while the brown nodes are optional.

![GQA backward pattern](images/gqa_backward.png)

1. The first MatMul computes the score between Query and Key, similar to
   inference and training forward propagation. See
   [MatMul](@ref dev_guide_op_matmul) in Graph API.
2. The Scale node is optional and scales the output of the first MatMul using a
   scaling factor. This can be implemented using [Multiply](@ref dev_guide_op_multiply)
   or [Divide](@ref dev_guide_op_divide) in Graph API.
3. The Mask node is optional and applies an attention mask to the output of the
   previous Scale node. For training backpropagation, only explicit user-generated
   masks are currently supported. The mask definition is the same as in
   inference and training forward propagation.
4. The Subtract and Exp operations take the masked output and `Stats` as inputs
   and recover the probabilities computed by SoftMax in the training forward
   propagation. See [Subtract](@ref dev_guide_op_subtract) and [Exp](@ref dev_guide_op_exp)
   in Graph API.
5. The TypeCast, MatMul and ReduceSum operations after Exp are used to compute the
   gradients with respect to Value. TypeCast is required for bf16 and f16
   training scenarios. ReduceSum reduces the Value gradients from
   (N, H_kv, N_rep, S, D) to (N, H_kv, 1, S, D). See [TypeCast](@ref dev_guide_op_typecast)
   and [ReduceSum](@ref dev_guide_op_reducesum) in Graph API.
6. The MatMul takes the output gradients (`dO`) and the Value as inputs to
   compute the gradients of the probabilities.
7. The SoftMaxBackward operation computes the gradients of the scaled output.
   See [SoftMaxBackward](@ref dev_guide_op_softmaxbackward) in Graph API.
8. The Scale node after SoftMaxBackward corresponds to the forward Scale node
   and is used to compute the gradients of the score.
9. The TypeCast, two MatMul and ReduceSum operations after the Scale node
   compute the gradients with respect to Query and Key, respectively. TypeCast
   is required for bf16 and f16 training scenarios. ReduceSum reduces the Key
   gradients from (N, H_kv, N_rep, S, D) to (N, H_kv, 1, S, D).

## Data Types

oneDNN supports the floating-point GQA pattern with data types f32, bf16, and
f16. You can specify the data type via the input and output data type fields of
logical tensors for each operation. oneDNN does not support mixing different
floating data types in a floating-point GQA pattern.

The definition of the data types and support status on different CPU and GPU
platforms follow the general description in @ref dev_guide_data_types.

## Implementation Limitations

1. oneDNN primitive-based GQA is implemented as the reference implementation on
   both Intel Architecture Processors and Intel Graphics Products. The reference
   implementation requires memory to store the intermediate results of the dot
   products between Query and Key which takes \f$O(S^2)\f$ memory. It may lead
   to Out-of-Memory error when computing long sequence length input on platforms with
   limited memory.
2. The GQA patterns functionally support all input shapes meeting the shape
   requirements of each operation in the graph.
3. CPU
   - Optimized implementation is available for 4D and 5D GQA patterns. For 4D, 
     the shapes are defined as (N, H_q, S, D) for Query and (N, H_kv, S, D) for
     Key and Value. For 5D, the shapes are defined as (N, H_kv, N_rep, S, D) for
     Query and (N, H_kv, 1, S, D) for Key and Value.
   - Optimized implementation is available for OpenMP runtime and Threadpool
     runtime on Intel Architecture Processors.
   - Specifically for OpenMP runtime, the optimized implementation requires `N *
     H_q > 2 * thread number` to get enough parallelism.
4. GPU
   - Optimized implementation is available for 4D and 5D GQA patterns. For 4D, 
     the shapes are defined as (N, H_q, S, D) for Query and (N, H_kv, S, D) for
     Key and Value. For 5D, the shapes are defined as (N, H_kv, N_rep, S, D) for
     Query and (N, H_kv, 1, S, D) for Key and Value.
   - Optimized implementation is available for floating-point GQA with `f16` and
     `bf16` data type and `D <= 512` on Intel Graphics Products with Intel(R)
     Xe Matrix Extensions (Intel(R) XMX) support.

## Example

oneDNN provides a [GQA inference
example](https://github.com/uxlfoundation/oneDNN/tree/main/examples/graph/gqa.cpp)
and a [GQA training example](https://github.com/uxlfoundation/oneDNN/tree/main/examples/graph/gqa_training.cpp)
demonstrating how to construct 5D floating-point GQA patterns for inference and
training with oneDNN Graph API on CPU and GPU with different runtimes.

## References

[1] Attention is all you need, https://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03762v7

[2] Fast Transformer Decoding: One Write-Head is All You Need, https://arxiv.org/abs/1911.02150

[3] GQA: Training Generalized Multi-Query Transformer Models from Multi-Head Checkpoints, https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.13245

Commit message:

doc: graph: add patterns for sdpa/gqa training backward
w.r.t. gradients for mask

doc/graph/fusion_patterns/gqa.md, after:

Grouped Query Attention (GQA) {#dev_guide_graph_gqa}
====================================================

## Overview

In a typical Scaled Dot-Product Attention (SDPA) [1], the input Query, Key, and
Value tensors have the same head number. It becomes a performance bottleneck to
load the Key and Value tensors in each generation step, especially when the
sentence length gets longer.

To reduce the memory bandwidth overhead of loading the Key and Value tensors,
Multi-Query Attention (MQA) [2] is created by reducing the head number of Key
and Value tensors to one which means multiple Queries will map to the same
single Key and Value tensor. However, MQA may lead to model quality degradation
and training instability. Therefore, Grouped-Query Attention (GQA) [3], an
interpolation between the typical SDPA and MQA, is proposed with single Key and
Value head per a subgroup of Query heads. The head number of Key and Value
equals to the group number of Query heads.

The notations used in the document:

- N: the mini-batch size.
- H_q: the head number of Query.
- H_kv: the head number of Key or Value.
- N_rep: H_q / H_kv, indicates how many Query heads are mapped to one Key head.
- S: the sequence length.
- D: the size of each head.

## GQA Pattern

Similar to how SDPA is supported, the GQA pattern is also defined as a
directional acyclic graph (DAG) using oneDNN Graph API.

### GQA for Inference

oneDNN extends the
[SDPA pattern](@ref dev_guide_graph_sdpa) to support two types of floating-point
(f32, bf16, and f16) GQA patterns. The blue nodes are required when defining a
GQA pattern while the brown nodes are optional. The key difference between the
two types of GQA patterns lies in whether the input and output tensors have 4D
or 5D shapes. The optional StaticReshape operations are used to convert the tensors
between 4D and 5D shape formats, depending on whether the input and output tensors
are in 4D shapes.

![GQA pattern](images/gqa.png)


#### GQA Inference Pattern with 4D input and output

Due to the broadcasting semantics of MatMul, implementing GQA often requires
additional tensor manipulation. Specifically, when working with 4D input tensors,
where Query has shape (N, H_q, S, D) and Key/Value has shape (N, H_kv, S, D),
it is necessary to introduce extra StaticReshape operations to align tensor
dimensions for the MatMul operations. Therefore, the 4D GQA pattern involves the
following differences:

1. The input Query has shape (N, H_q, S, D). It will be reshaped to (N, H_kv,
   N_rep, S, D) by splitting H_q dimension into H_kv and N_rep. The reshaping
   can be constructed using the [StaticReshape](@ref dev_guide_op_staticreshape)
   operation in Graph API.
2. Similarly, the input Key and Value have shape (N, H_kv, S, D). They will be
   reshaped to (N, H_kv, 1, S, D) to meet the input shape requirement of
   [MatMul](@ref dev_guide_op_matmul) operation.
3. The second MatMul calculates the dot products between the probabilities after
   SoftMax and Value nodes and generates output with shape (N, H_kv, N_rep, S, D).
4. Another StaticReshape operation is applied to the output of the second MatMul
   to convert the shape into (N, H_q, S, D) by combining H_kv and N_rep
   dimensions.
5. The input scale factor and mask in the pattern also need to meet the
   operations' shape requirement which can be achieved through StaticReshape
   similarly. Besides that, they have the same definition as described in the
   typical SDPA pattern.

#### GQA Inference Pattern with 5D input and output

To simplify the process and avoid unnecessary reshaping, the native 5D GQA
pattern supported by oneDNN can be used. In this approach, the input Query, Key,
and Value tensors are provided in a grouped format.

1. The input Query has a 5D shape: (N, H_kv, N_rep, S, D)
2. The input Key/Value has a 5D shape: (N, H_kv, 1, S, D)
3. The second MatMul calculates the dot products between the probabilities after
   SoftMax and Value nodes and generates output with shape (N, H_kv, N_rep, S, D).
4. The input scale factor and mask in the pattern must meet the operations'
   shape requirement.

### GQA for Training Forward Propagation

oneDNN defines floating-point (f32, bf16, or f16) GQA for training forward
propagation as follows. The blue nodes are required while the brown nodes are optional.

![GQA forward pattern](images/gqa_forward.png)

The training forward pattern only supports 5D input and output tensors. The key
difference between the inference pattern with 5D input/output and the training
forward propagation pattern is that, for training forward propagation, the
`Stats` output of the SoftMax operation is needed. See
[SoftMax](@ref dev_guide_op_softmax) in Graph API for more details.

### GQA for Training Backpropagation

oneDNN defines floating-point (f32, bf16, or f16) GQA for training
backpropagation as follows, it currently supports 5D input and output tensors.
The blue nodes are required while the brown nodes are optional.

![GQA backward pattern](images/gqa_backward.png)

1. The first MatMul computes the score between Query and Key, similar to
   inference and training forward propagation. See
   [MatMul](@ref dev_guide_op_matmul) in Graph API.
2. The Scale node is optional and scales the output of the first MatMul using a
   scaling factor. This can be implemented using [Multiply](@ref dev_guide_op_multiply)
   or [Divide](@ref dev_guide_op_divide) in Graph API.
3. The Mask node is optional and applies an attention mask to the output of the
   previous Scale node. For training backpropagation, only explicit user-generated
   masks are currently supported. The mask definition is the same as in
   inference and training forward propagation.
4. The Subtract and Exp operations take the masked output and `Stats` as inputs
   and recover the probabilities computed by SoftMax in the training forward
   propagation. See [Subtract](@ref dev_guide_op_subtract) and [Exp](@ref dev_guide_op_exp)
   in Graph API.
5. The TypeCast, MatMul and ReduceSum operations after Exp are used to compute the
   gradients with respect to Value. TypeCast is required for bf16 and f16
   training scenarios. ReduceSum reduces the Value gradients from
   (N, H_kv, N_rep, S, D) to (N, H_kv, 1, S, D). See [TypeCast](@ref dev_guide_op_typecast)
   and [ReduceSum](@ref dev_guide_op_reducesum) in Graph API.
6. The MatMul takes the output gradients (`dO`) and the Value as inputs to
   compute the gradients of the probabilities.
7. The SoftMaxBackward operation computes the gradients of the scaled output.
   See [SoftMaxBackward](@ref dev_guide_op_softmaxbackward) in Graph API.
8. The Scale node after SoftMaxBackward corresponds to the forward Scale node
   and is used to compute the gradients of the score.
9. The TypeCast, two MatMul and ReduceSum operations after the Scale node
   compute the gradients with respect to Query and Key, respectively. TypeCast
   is required for bf16 and f16 training scenarios. ReduceSum reduces the Key
   gradients from (N, H_kv, N_rep, S, D) to (N, H_kv, 1, S, D).
10. The optional End operation marks the output of SoftMaxBackward as a
    partition output, representing the gradients with respect to the Mask. Note
    that the output shape of `dM` is (N, H_kv, N_rep, S, S) and the data
    type is f32. The library does not perform any reduction or typecast on this
    output (for example, reducing to (1, 1, 1, S, S), casting to f16).

## Data Types

oneDNN supports the floating-point GQA pattern with data types f32, bf16, and
f16. You can specify the data type via the input and output data type fields of
logical tensors for each operation. oneDNN does not support mixing different
floating data types in a floating-point GQA pattern.

The definition of the data types and support status on different CPU and GPU
platforms follow the general description in @ref dev_guide_data_types.

## Implementation Limitations

1. oneDNN primitive-based GQA is implemented as the reference implementation on
   both Intel Architecture Processors and Intel Graphics Products. The reference
   implementation requires memory to store the intermediate results of the dot
   products between Query and Key which takes \f$O(S^2)\f$ memory. It may lead
   to Out-of-Memory error when computing long sequence length input on platforms with
   limited memory.
2. The GQA patterns functionally support all input shapes meeting the shape
   requirements of each operation in the graph.
3. CPU
   - Optimized implementation is available for 4D and 5D GQA patterns. For 4D, 
     the shapes are defined as (N, H_q, S, D) for Query and (N, H_kv, S, D) for
     Key and Value. For 5D, the shapes are defined as (N, H_kv, N_rep, S, D) for
     Query and (N, H_kv, 1, S, D) for Key and Value.
   - Optimized implementation is available for OpenMP runtime and Threadpool
     runtime on Intel Architecture Processors.
   - Specifically for OpenMP runtime, the optimized implementation requires `N *
     H_q > 2 * thread number` to get enough parallelism.
4. GPU
   - Optimized implementation is available for 4D and 5D GQA patterns. For 4D, 
     the shapes are defined as (N, H_q, S, D) for Query and (N, H_kv, S, D) for
     Key and Value. For 5D, the shapes are defined as (N, H_kv, N_rep, S, D) for
     Query and (N, H_kv, 1, S, D) for Key and Value.
   - Optimized implementation is available for floating-point GQA with `f16` and
     `bf16` data type and `D <= 512` on Intel Graphics Products with Intel(R)
     Xe Matrix Extensions (Intel(R) XMX) support.

## Example

oneDNN provides a [GQA inference
example](https://github.com/uxlfoundation/oneDNN/tree/main/examples/graph/gqa.cpp)
and a [GQA training example](https://github.com/uxlfoundation/oneDNN/tree/main/examples/graph/gqa_training.cpp)
demonstrating how to construct 5D floating-point GQA patterns for inference and
training with oneDNN Graph API on CPU and GPU with different runtimes.

## References

[1] Attention is all you need, https://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03762v7

[2] Fast Transformer Decoding: One Write-Head is All You Need, https://arxiv.org/abs/1911.02150

[3] GQA: Training Generalized Multi-Query Transformer Models from Multi-Head Checkpoints, https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.13245
