doc/graph/fusion_patterns/sdpa.md, before:

Scaled Dot-Product Attention (SDPA) {#dev_guide_graph_sdpa}
===========================================================

## Overview

Scaled Dot-Product Attention (SDPA) is introduced in [1] as the core operation
of Transformer block which now becomes the backbone of many language models and
generative models (BERT, Stable Diffusion, GPT, etc.).

The input of SDPA consists of query (Q), key (K), and value (V). The attention
output is computed as:

\f[

    attention(Q,K,V) = V \cdot softmax(\frac{QK^T}{\sqrt{d_k}})

\f]

\f$d_k\f$ is the dimension size of K. Other notations used in the document:

- N: the mini-batch size.
- H: the number of multi-head.
- S: the sequence length.
- D_qk: the head size of query and key.
- D_v: the head size of value.

## SDPA patterns

oneDNN supports SDPA and its optimization through Graph API [2] by defining the
SDPA graph, getting partition from the graph, and optimizing the kernels
underneath. In general, an SDPA pattern is defined as a directional acyclic
graph (DAG) using oneDNN Graph API.

### Floating-point SDPA for Inference

oneDNN defines floating-point (f32, bf16, or f16) SDPA as follows. The blue
nodes are required when defining an SDPA pattern while the brown parts are
optional.

![SDPA pattern](images/sdpa.png)

1. The first MatMul calculates the dot products between Query and Key. See
   [MatMul](@ref dev_guide_op_matmul) operation in Graph API.
2. The Scale node is optional and is used to scale the output of the first
   MatMul with a scaling factor. It can be constructed by [Multiply](@ref dev_guide_op_multiply)
   or [Divide](@ref dev_guide_op_divide) operation in Graph API. The scaling
   factor is given by users as an input of SDPA. \f$\sqrt{d_k}\f$ in the formula
   is not considered as a part of the SDPA pattern because it is a constant.
3. The Mask node is optional and is used to apply an attention mask to the
   output of the previous Scale node. There are two types of masks that can
   be applied:

   1. Explicit user-generated mask: You can explicitly create a mask tensor
   and pass it to the library for the computation of SDPA. In this case, mask
   can be constructed by [Add](@ref dev_guide_op_add)
   or [Select](@ref dev_guide_op_select) operation in Graph API for different
   mask policies (for example, causal mask or padding mask). When the
   Add operation is used to apply the mask, the input mask is usually an upper
   triangular matrix with all the elements above the diagonal filled with
   `-inf` and zeroes elsewhere. The `-inf` entries will become zero probability
   after Softmax is applied in the next step.
   Alternatively, a Select operation may be used. In this case, the
   input is a boolean tensor (for example, with the boolean value set to `true`
   on and below the diagonal, and `false` above the diagonal).
   A `false` element in the mask forces the corresponding element of the scaled
   output to `-inf`, while a `true` element leaves it unchanged.

   ![SDPA-mask-1](images/sdpa-mask-1.png) ![SDPA-mask-2](images/sdpa-mask-2.png)

   2. Implicit library-generated mask: You can use the operations in the library
   to generate a mask by constructing a subgraph. Currently, Graph API supports
   generating an implicit causal mask (top-left or bottom-right aligned) using
   operations of [GenIndex](@ref dev_guide_op_genindex), [Add](@ref dev_guide_op_add).
   [Subtract](@ref dev_guide_op_subtract), [GreaterEqual](@ref dev_guide_op_greaterequal)
   and [Select](@ref dev_guide_op_select).

   ![SDPA-mask-3](images/sdpa-mask-3.png) ![SDPA-mask-4](images/sdpa-mask-4.png)

4. The SoftMax operation takes the masked output and transforms it into
   probabilities between 0 and 1. See [SoftMax](@ref dev_guide_op_softmax)
   operation in Graph API.
5. The second MatMul calculates the dot products between the probabilities after
   SoftMax and Value.
6. The Reorder node is optional and used to reshape or transpose the attention
   output for cases where the attention output is transformed from shape (N, H,
   S, D_v) to (N, S, H, D_v) or (N, S, H * D_v). The node can be constructed by
   the combinations of [StaticTranspose](@ref dev_guide_op_statictranspose) and
   [StaticReshape](@ref dev_guide_op_staticreshape) operation in Graph API.

   ![SDPA-Reorder](images/sdpa-reorder.png)


### Floating-point SDPA for Training Forward Propagation

oneDNN defines floating-point (f32, bf16, or f16) SDPA for training forward
propagation as follows. The blue nodes are required while the brown nodes are optional.

![SDPA pattern](images/sdpa_forward.png)

The only difference between the inference and training forward propagation
patterns is that, for training forward propagation, the `Stats` output of the
SoftMax operation is needed. See [SoftMax](@ref dev_guide_op_softmax) in Graph
API for more details.

### Floating-point SDPA for Training Backpropagation

oneDNN defines floating-point (f32, bf16, or f16) SDPA for training
backpropagation as follows. The blue nodes are required while the brown nodes
are optional.

![SDPA backward pattern](images/sdpa_backward.png)

1. The first MatMul computes the score between Query and Key, similar to
   inference and training forward propagation. See
   [MatMul](@ref dev_guide_op_matmul) in Graph API.
2. The Scale node is optional and scales the output of the first MatMul using a
   scaling factor. This can be implemented using [Multiply](@ref dev_guide_op_multiply)
   or [Divide](@ref dev_guide_op_divide) in Graph API.
3. The Mask node is optional and applies an attention mask to the output of the
   previous Scale node. For training backpropagation, only explicit user-generated
   masks are currently supported. The mask definition is the same as in
   inference and training forward propagation.
4. The Subtract and Exp operations take the masked output and `Stats` as inputs
   and recover the probabilities computed by SoftMax in the training forward
   propagation. See [Subtract](@ref dev_guide_op_subtract) and [Exp](@ref dev_guide_op_exp)
   in Graph API.
5. The TypeCast and MatMul operations after Exp are used to compute the
   gradients with respect to Value. TypeCast is required for bf16 and f16
   training scenarios. See [TypeCast](@ref dev_guide_op_typecast) in Graph API.
6. The MatMul takes the output gradients (`dO`) and the Value as inputs to
   compute the gradients of the probabilities.
7. The SoftMaxBackward operation computes the gradients of the scaled output.
   See [SoftMaxBackward](@ref dev_guide_op_softmaxbackward) in Graph API.
8. The Scale node after SoftMaxBackward corresponds to the forward Scale node
   and is used to compute the gradients of the score.
9. The TypeCast and two MatMul operations after the Scale node compute the
   gradients with respect to Query and Key, respectively. TypeCast is required
   for bf16 and f16 training scenarios.

## Data Types

oneDNN supports the floating-point SDPA pattern with data types f32, bf16, and
f16. You can specify the data type via the input and output logical tensors'
data type fields for each operation.

oneDNN supports bf16 or f16 SDPA with f32 intermediate type. For
inference and traing forward propagation, the Q, K and V tensors use bf16 or f16
data types, while the outputs of the first MatMul, Scale, Mask, and the input of
SoftMax are in f32. Similarly, in training backpropagation, the Q, K, V, dO, dQ,
dK and dV tensors use bf16 or f16, while the Stats input uses f32. The intermediate
tensors are in f32, except those after TypeCast, which cast to bf16 or f16.

The definition of the data types and support status on different CPU and GPU
platforms follow the general description in @ref dev_guide_data_types.

## Implementation limitations

1. oneDNN primitive-based SDPA is implemented as the reference implementation on
   both Intel Architecture Processors and Intel Graphics Products. In this case,
   floating-point SDPA patterns are usually implemented with f32, bf16, or f16
   matmul (with post-ops) and softmax primitives, while quantized SDPA patterns
   are implemented with int8 matmul (with post-ops) and f32, bf16, or f16
   softmax primitives. The reference implementation requires memory to store the
   intermediate results of the dot products between Query and Key which takes
   \f$O(S^2)\f$ memory. It may lead to out-of-memory error when computing long
   sequence length input on platforms with limited memory.
2. The SDPA patterns functionally supports all input shapes meeting the shape
   requirements of each operation in the graph. For example, Add, Multiply,
   Divide, and Select operations require the input tensors to have the same
   shape or the shapes can be properly broadcasted based on the operation
   attribute.
3. Dropout is currently not supported in SDPA training.
4. CPU
   - Optimized implementation for inference is available for 4D Q/K tensors with
     shape defined as (N, H, S, D_qk) and V tensor with shape defined as
     (N, H, S, D_v).
   - Optimized implementation for inference is available for OpenMP runtime and Threadpool
     runtime on Intel Architecture Processors.
   - Specifically for OpenMP runtime, the optimized implementation requires `N *
     H > 2 * thread number` to get enough parallelism.
5. GPU
   - Optimized implementation for inference is available for 4D Q/K tensors with
     shape defined as (N, H, S, D_qk) and V tensor with shape defined as (N, H,
     S, D_v) where D_qk equals D_v.
   - Optimized implementation for inference is available for `f16` or `bf16`
     SDPA with `f32` intermediate data type and `D <= 512` on Intel Graphics
     Products with Intel(R) Xe Matrix Extensions (Intel(R) XMX) support.

## Example

oneDNN provides an [SDPA
example](https://github.com/uxlfoundation/oneDNN/tree/main/examples/graph/sdpa.cpp)
demonstrating how to construct a typical floating-point SDPA pattern with oneDNN
Graph API on CPU and GPU with different runtimes.

oneDNN also provides a [MQA (Multi-Query Attention)
example](https://github.com/uxlfoundation/oneDNN/tree/main/examples/graph/mqa.cpp) [3]
demonstrating how to construct a floating-point MQA pattern with the same
pattern structure as in the SDPA example but different head number in Key and
Value tensors. In MQA, the head number of Key and Value is always one.

oneDNN also proides an [SDPA with bottom-right implicit causal mask
example](https://github.com/uxlfoundation/oneDNN/tree/main/examples/graph/sdpa_bottom_right_causal_mask.cpp)
demonstrating how to construct a floating-point SDPA pattern with implicit
library-generated attention masks.

## References

[1] Attention is all you need, https://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03762v7

[2] oneDNN Graph API documentation, https://uxlfoundation.github.io/oneDNN/graph_extension.html

[3] Fast Transformer Decoding: One Write-Head is All You Need, https://arxiv.org/abs/1911.02150

Commit message:

doc: graph: add patterns for sdpa/gqa training backward
w.r.t. gradients for mask

doc/graph/fusion_patterns/sdpa.md, after:

Scaled Dot-Product Attention (SDPA) {#dev_guide_graph_sdpa}
===========================================================

## Overview

Scaled Dot-Product Attention (SDPA) is introduced in [1] as the core operation
of Transformer block which now becomes the backbone of many language models and
generative models (BERT, Stable Diffusion, GPT, etc.).

The input of SDPA consists of query (Q), key (K), and value (V). The attention
output is computed as:

\f[

    attention(Q,K,V) = V \cdot softmax(\frac{QK^T}{\sqrt{d_k}})

\f]

\f$d_k\f$ is the dimension size of K. Other notations used in the document:

- N: the mini-batch size.
- H: the number of multi-head.
- S: the sequence length.
- D_qk: the head size of query and key.
- D_v: the head size of value.

## SDPA patterns

oneDNN supports SDPA and its optimization through Graph API [2] by defining the
SDPA graph, getting partition from the graph, and optimizing the kernels
underneath. In general, an SDPA pattern is defined as a directional acyclic
graph (DAG) using oneDNN Graph API.

### Floating-point SDPA for Inference

oneDNN defines floating-point (f32, bf16, or f16) SDPA as follows. The blue
nodes are required when defining an SDPA pattern while the brown parts are
optional.

![SDPA pattern](images/sdpa.png)

1. The first MatMul calculates the dot products between Query and Key. See
   [MatMul](@ref dev_guide_op_matmul) operation in Graph API.
2. The Scale node is optional and is used to scale the output of the first
   MatMul with a scaling factor. It can be constructed by [Multiply](@ref dev_guide_op_multiply)
   or [Divide](@ref dev_guide_op_divide) operation in Graph API. The scaling
   factor is given by users as an input of SDPA. \f$\sqrt{d_k}\f$ in the formula
   is not considered as a part of the SDPA pattern because it is a constant.
3. The Mask node is optional and is used to apply an attention mask to the
   output of the previous Scale node. There are two types of masks that can
   be applied:

   1. Explicit user-generated mask: You can explicitly create a mask tensor
   and pass it to the library for the computation of SDPA. In this case, mask
   can be constructed by [Add](@ref dev_guide_op_add)
   or [Select](@ref dev_guide_op_select) operation in Graph API for different
   mask policies (for example, causal mask or padding mask). When the
   Add operation is used to apply the mask, the input mask is usually an upper
   triangular matrix with all the elements above the diagonal filled with
   `-inf` and zeroes elsewhere. The `-inf` entries will become zero probability
   after Softmax is applied in the next step.
   Alternatively, a Select operation may be used. In this case, the
   input is a boolean tensor (for example, with the boolean value set to `true`
   on and below the diagonal, and `false` above the diagonal).
   A `false` element in the mask forces the corresponding element of the scaled
   output to `-inf`, while a `true` element leaves it unchanged.

   ![SDPA-mask-1](images/sdpa-mask-1.png) ![SDPA-mask-2](images/sdpa-mask-2.png)

   2. Implicit library-generated mask: You can use the operations in the library
   to generate a mask by constructing a subgraph. Currently, Graph API supports
   generating an implicit causal mask (top-left or bottom-right aligned) using
   operations of [GenIndex](@ref dev_guide_op_genindex), [Add](@ref dev_guide_op_add).
   [Subtract](@ref dev_guide_op_subtract), [GreaterEqual](@ref dev_guide_op_greaterequal)
   and [Select](@ref dev_guide_op_select).

   ![SDPA-mask-3](images/sdpa-mask-3.png) ![SDPA-mask-4](images/sdpa-mask-4.png)

4. The SoftMax operation takes the masked output and transforms it into
   probabilities between 0 and 1. See [SoftMax](@ref dev_guide_op_softmax)
   operation in Graph API.
5. The second MatMul calculates the dot products between the probabilities after
   SoftMax and Value.
6. The Reorder node is optional and used to reshape or transpose the attention
   output for cases where the attention output is transformed from shape (N, H,
   S, D_v) to (N, S, H, D_v) or (N, S, H * D_v). The node can be constructed by
   the combinations of [StaticTranspose](@ref dev_guide_op_statictranspose) and
   [StaticReshape](@ref dev_guide_op_staticreshape) operation in Graph API.

   ![SDPA-Reorder](images/sdpa-reorder.png)


### Floating-point SDPA for Training Forward Propagation

oneDNN defines floating-point (f32, bf16, or f16) SDPA for training forward
propagation as follows. The blue nodes are required while the brown nodes are optional.

![SDPA pattern](images/sdpa_forward.png)

The only difference between the inference and training forward propagation
patterns is that, for training forward propagation, the `Stats` output of the
SoftMax operation is needed. See [SoftMax](@ref dev_guide_op_softmax) in Graph
API for more details.

### Floating-point SDPA for Training Backpropagation

oneDNN defines floating-point (f32, bf16, or f16) SDPA for training
backpropagation as follows. The blue nodes are required while the brown nodes
are optional.

![SDPA backward pattern](images/sdpa_backward.png)

1. The first MatMul computes the score between Query and Key, similar to
   inference and training forward propagation. See
   [MatMul](@ref dev_guide_op_matmul) in Graph API.
2. The Scale node is optional and scales the output of the first MatMul using a
   scaling factor. This can be implemented using [Multiply](@ref dev_guide_op_multiply)
   or [Divide](@ref dev_guide_op_divide) in Graph API.
3. The Mask node is optional and applies an attention mask to the output of the
   previous Scale node. For training backpropagation, only explicit user-generated
   masks are currently supported. The mask definition is the same as in
   inference and training forward propagation.
4. The Subtract and Exp operations take the masked output and `Stats` as inputs
   and recover the probabilities computed by SoftMax in the training forward
   propagation. See [Subtract](@ref dev_guide_op_subtract) and [Exp](@ref dev_guide_op_exp)
   in Graph API.
5. The TypeCast and MatMul operations after Exp are used to compute the
   gradients with respect to Value. TypeCast is required for bf16 and f16
   training scenarios. See [TypeCast](@ref dev_guide_op_typecast) in Graph API.
6. The MatMul takes the output gradients (`dO`) and the Value as inputs to
   compute the gradients of the probabilities.
7. The SoftMaxBackward operation computes the gradients of the scaled output.
   See [SoftMaxBackward](@ref dev_guide_op_softmaxbackward) in Graph API.
8. The Scale node after SoftMaxBackward corresponds to the forward Scale node
   and is used to compute the gradients of the score.
9. The TypeCast and two MatMul operations after the Scale node compute the
   gradients with respect to Query and Key, respectively. TypeCast is required
   for bf16 and f16 training scenarios.
10. The optional End operation marks the output of SoftMaxBackward as a
    partition output, representing the gradients with respect to the Mask. Note
    that the output shape of `dM` is (N, H, S, S) and the data
    type is f32. The library does not perform any reduction or typecast on this
    output (for example, reducing to (1, 1, S, S), casting to f16).

## Data Types

oneDNN supports the floating-point SDPA pattern with data types f32, bf16, and
f16. You can specify the data type via the input and output logical tensors'
data type fields for each operation.

oneDNN supports bf16 or f16 SDPA with f32 intermediate type. For
inference and traing forward propagation, the Q, K and V tensors use bf16 or f16
data types, while the outputs of the first MatMul, Scale, Mask, and the input of
SoftMax are in f32. Similarly, in training backpropagation, the Q, K, V, dO, dQ,
dK and dV tensors use bf16 or f16, while the Stats input uses f32. The intermediate
tensors are in f32, except those after TypeCast, which cast to bf16 or f16.

The definition of the data types and support status on different CPU and GPU
platforms follow the general description in @ref dev_guide_data_types.

## Implementation limitations

1. oneDNN primitive-based SDPA is implemented as the reference implementation on
   both Intel Architecture Processors and Intel Graphics Products. In this case,
   floating-point SDPA patterns are usually implemented with f32, bf16, or f16
   matmul (with post-ops) and softmax primitives, while quantized SDPA patterns
   are implemented with int8 matmul (with post-ops) and f32, bf16, or f16
   softmax primitives. The reference implementation requires memory to store the
   intermediate results of the dot products between Query and Key which takes
   \f$O(S^2)\f$ memory. It may lead to out-of-memory error when computing long
   sequence length input on platforms with limited memory.
2. The SDPA patterns functionally supports all input shapes meeting the shape
   requirements of each operation in the graph. For example, Add, Multiply,
   Divide, and Select operations require the input tensors to have the same
   shape or the shapes can be properly broadcasted based on the operation
   attribute.
3. Dropout is currently not supported in SDPA training.
4. CPU
   - Optimized implementation for inference is available for 4D Q/K tensors with
     shape defined as (N, H, S, D_qk) and V tensor with shape defined as
     (N, H, S, D_v).
   - Optimized implementation for inference is available for OpenMP runtime and Threadpool
     runtime on Intel Architecture Processors.
   - Specifically for OpenMP runtime, the optimized implementation requires `N *
     H > 2 * thread number` to get enough parallelism.
5. GPU
   - Optimized implementation for inference is available for 4D Q/K tensors with
     shape defined as (N, H, S, D_qk) and V tensor with shape defined as (N, H,
     S, D_v) where D_qk equals D_v.
   - Optimized implementation for inference is available for `f16` or `bf16`
     SDPA with `f32` intermediate data type and `D <= 512` on Intel Graphics
     Products with Intel(R) Xe Matrix Extensions (Intel(R) XMX) support.

## Example

oneDNN provides an [SDPA
example](https://github.com/uxlfoundation/oneDNN/tree/main/examples/graph/sdpa.cpp)
demonstrating how to construct a typical floating-point SDPA pattern with oneDNN
Graph API on CPU and GPU with different runtimes.

oneDNN also provides a [MQA (Multi-Query Attention)
example](https://github.com/uxlfoundation/oneDNN/tree/main/examples/graph/mqa.cpp) [3]
demonstrating how to construct a floating-point MQA pattern with the same
pattern structure as in the SDPA example but different head number in Key and
Value tensors. In MQA, the head number of Key and Value is always one.

oneDNN also proides an [SDPA with bottom-right implicit causal mask
example](https://github.com/uxlfoundation/oneDNN/tree/main/examples/graph/sdpa_bottom_right_causal_mask.cpp)
demonstrating how to construct a floating-point SDPA pattern with implicit
library-generated attention masks.

## References

[1] Attention is all you need, https://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03762v7

[2] oneDNN Graph API documentation, https://uxlfoundation.github.io/oneDNN/graph_extension.html

[3] Fast Transformer Decoding: One Write-Head is All You Need, https://arxiv.org/abs/1911.02150
