doc/graph/fusion_patterns/softmax_fusion_patterns.md, before:

Softmax Fusion Patterns {#dev_guide_graph_softmax_fusion_patterns}
==================================================================

## Overview

oneDNN supports various SoftMax fusion patterns to optimize performance and
reduce memory bandwidth requirements. This document describes the supported
fusion patterns for SoftMax.

## Pattern Structure

oneDNN defines floating-point SoftMax fusion patterns as follows.
The blue nodes are required when defining a SoftMax fusion pattern while the
brown nodes are optional.

![Softmax pattern](images/softmax_pattern.png)

1. **SoftMax Operation**: Performs the softmax function for the `src` tensor. See
   the [SoftMax](@ref dev_guide_op_softmax) operation in the Graph API for more
   details.
2. **F2F Conversion Subgraph**: Converts the output tensor from floating-point to
   another floating-point. It is constructed by a [TypeCast](@ref dev_guide_op_typecast)
   operation.

   ![f2f_conversion_subgraph](images/f2f_conversion.png)

3. **Epilogue Subgraph**: Optional and can include the following operations:
   - Binary and Unary operations: refer to the Note in
     [Fusion Patterns](graph_fusion_patterns.html).

   Combination Rules:

   ![epilogue subgraph](images/epilogue_subgraph_general_1.png)

   - N=20, 0 to 20 Binary or Unary operations are supported in the epilogue
     subgraph.

4. **F2Q Conversion Subgraph**: Converts the output
   tensor from floating-point to quantized data type. It can be one of
   the following subgraphs. See [TypeCast](@ref dev_guide_op_typecast)
   and [Quantize](@ref dev_guide_op_quantize) operations in Graph API.

   ![f2q_conversion_subgraph](images/f2q_conversion_softmax.png)


## Data Types

oneDNN supports the following combinations of data types for src and dst:

| src           | dst             |
| :------------ | :----------------- |
| bf16,f16,f32  | u8,s8,bf16,f16,f32 |

The definition of data types and their support status on different CPU and GPU
platforms follow the general description in the [Data Types Guide](@ref dev_guide_data_types).

Commit message:

doc: graph: fusion: correct softmax fusion pattern document

doc/graph/fusion_patterns/softmax_fusion_patterns.md, after:

Softmax Fusion Patterns {#dev_guide_graph_softmax_fusion_patterns}
==================================================================

## Overview

oneDNN supports various SoftMax fusion patterns to optimize performance and
reduce memory bandwidth requirements. This document describes the supported
fusion patterns for SoftMax.

## Pattern Structure

oneDNN defines floating-point SoftMax fusion patterns as follows.
The blue nodes are required when defining a SoftMax fusion pattern while the
brown nodes are optional.

![Softmax pattern](images/softmax_pattern.png)

1. **SoftMax Operation**: Performs the softmax function for the `src` tensor. See
   the [SoftMax](@ref dev_guide_op_softmax) operation in the Graph API for more
   details.
2. **Epilogue Subgraph**: Optional and can include the following operations:
   - Binary and Unary operations: refer to the Note in
     [Fusion Patterns](graph_fusion_patterns.html).

   ![epilogue subgraph](images/epilogue_subgraph_general_1.png)

   - N=20, 0 to 20 Binary or Unary operations are supported in the epilogue
     subgraph.
3. **F2F Conversion Subgraph**: Converts the output tensor from floating-point
   to another floating-point. It is constructed by a [TypeCast](@ref dev_guide_op_typecast)
   operation.

   ![f2f_conversion_subgraph](images/f2f_conversion.png)

4. **F2Q Conversion Subgraph**: Converts the output tensor from floating-point
   to quantized data type. It is constructed by a [Quantize](@ref dev_guide_op_quantize)
   operations in Graph API.

   ![f2q_conversion_subgraph](images/f2q_conversion_general.png)

5. If multiple optional subgraphs are present, they must follow the order
   defined in the pattern structure.

## Data Types

Refer to the document of each operation for the supported data types.

If any optional subgraph is present, the output data type of `SoftMax` must be
`f32`. With that, the F2F conversion subgraph converts the output from `f32` to
`f16` or `bf16` and the F2Q conversion sugraph quantizes the output from `f32`
to `int8`.

The definition of data types and their support status on different CPU and GPU
platforms follow the general description in the [Data Types Guide](@ref dev_guide_data_types).
